<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# License

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)

> This is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for) the
> [license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode).

## You are free to:

**Share** — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format

**Adapt** — remix, transform and build upon the material for any
purpose, even commercially.

The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the
license terms.

## Under the following terms:

**Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a [link to
the license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode),
and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable
manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or
your use.

**ShareAlike** — If you remix, transform or build upon the material, you
must distribute your contributions under the same license as the
original.

No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or
technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything
the license permits.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Why Angular?

There are many front-end JavaScript frameworks to choose from today,
each with its own set of trade-offs. Many people were happy with the
functionality that Angular 1.x afforded them. Angular 2 improved on that
functionality and made it faster, more scalable and more modern.
Organizations that found value in Angular 1.x will find more value in
Angular 2.

## Angular's Advantages

The first release of Angular provided programmers with the tools to
develop and architect large scale JavaScript applications, but its age
has revealed a number of flaws and sharp edges. Angular 2 was built on
five years of community feedback.

### Angular 2 Is Easier

The new Angular codebase is more modern, more capable and easier for new
programmers to learn than Angular 1.x, while also being easier for
project veterans to work with.

With Angular 1, programmers had to understand the differences between
Controllers, Services, Factories, Providers and other concepts that
could be confusing, especially for new programmers.

Angular 2 is a more streamlined framework that allows programmers to
focus on simply building JavaScript classes. Views and controllers are
replaced with components, which can be described as a refined version of
directives. Even experienced Angular programmers are not always aware of
all the capabilities of Angular 1.x directives. Angular 2 components are
considerably easier to read, and their API features less jargon than
Angular 1.x's directives. Additionally, to help ease the transition to
Angular 2, the Angular team has added a `.component` method to Angular
1.5, which has been [back-ported by community member Todd Motto to
v1.3](https://toddmotto.com/angular-component-method-back-ported-to-1.3/).

### TypeScript

Angular 2 was written in TypeScript, a superset of JavaScript that
implements many new ES2016+ features.

By focusing on making the framework easier for computers to process,
Angular 2 allows for a much richer development ecosystem. Programmers
using sophisticated text editors (or IDEs) will notice dramatic
improvements with auto-completion and type suggestions. These
improvements help to reduce the cognitive burden of learning Angular 2.
Fortunately for traditional ES5 JavaScript programmers this does *not*
mean that development must be done in TypeScript or ES2015: programmers
can still write vanilla JavaScript that runs without transpilation.

### Familiarity

Despite being a complete rewrite, Angular 2 has retained many of its
core concepts and conventions with Angular 1.x, e.g. a streamlined,
"native JS" implementation of dependency injection. This means that
programmers who are already proficient with Angular will have an easier
time migrating to Angular 2 than another library like React or framework
like Ember.

### Performance and Mobile

Angular 2 was designed for mobile from the ground up. Aside from limited
processing power, mobile devices have other features and limitations
that separate them from traditional computers. Touch interfaces, limited
screen real estate and mobile hardware have all been considered in
Angular 2.

Desktop computers will also see dramatic improvements in performance and
responsiveness.

Angular 2, like React and other modern frameworks, can leverage
performance gains by rendering HTML on the server or even in a web
worker. Depending on application/site design this isomorphic rendering
can make a user's experience *feel* even more instantaneous.

The quest for performance does not end with pre-rendering. Angular 2
makes itself portable to native mobile by integrating with
[NativeScript](https://www.nativescript.org/), an open source library
that bridges JavaScript and mobile. Additionally, the Ionic team is
working on an Angular 2 version of their product, providing *another*
way to leverage native device features with Angular.

### Project Architecture and Maintenance

The first iteration of Angular provided web programmers with a highly
flexible framework for developing applications. This was a dramatic
shift for many web programmers, and while that framework was helpful, it
became evident that it was often too flexible. Over time, best practices
evolved, and a community-driven structure was endorsed.

Angular 1.x tried to work around various browser limitations related to
JavaScript. This was done by introducing a module system that made use
of dependency injection. This system was novel, but unfortunately had
issues with tooling, notably minification and static analysis.

Angular 2.x makes use of the ES2015 module system, and modern packaging
tools like webpack or SystemJS. Modules are far less coupled to the
"Angular way", and it's easier to write more generic JavaScript and plug
it into Angular. The removal of minification workarounds and the
addition of rigid prescriptions make maintaining existing applications
simpler. The new module system also makes it easier to develop effective
tooling that can reason better about larger projects.

### New Features

Some of the other interesting features in Angular 2 are:

  - Form Builder
  - Change Detection
  - Templating
  - Routing
  - Annotations
  - Observables
  - Shadow DOM

## Differences Between Angular 1 & 2

> Note that "Transitional Architecture" refers to a style of Angular 1
> application written in a way that mimics Angular 2's component style,
> but with controllers and directives instead of TypeScript
classes.

|                                       | Old School Angular 1.x | Angular 1.x Best Practices | **Transitional Architecture** | Angular 2            |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------- |
| Nested scopes ("$scope", watches)     | Used heavily           | Avoided                    | **Avoided**                   | Gone                 |
| Directives vs controllers             | Use as alternatives    | Used together              | **Directives as components**  | Component directives |
| Controller and service implementation | Functions              | Functions                  | **ES6 classes**               | ES6 classes          |
| Module system                         | Angular's modules      | Angular's modules          | **ES6 modules**               | ES6 modules          |
| Transpiler required                   | No                     | No                         | **TypeScript**                | TypeScript           |

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating Functional Forms

**Daniel Figueiredo and Renee Vrantsidis**

The architecture of a software system is a description of how to
decompose it into pieces, how those pieces interact, and how that
decomposition enables and constrains further development. In this
chapter, we will begin our exploration of the architecture of JavaScript
applications by looking at how to use ideas borrowed from pure
functional programming to simplify one of the most common tasks in web
development: form handling. At first glance these two topics have
nothing to do with each other, but paradoxically, acting as if the state
of our system cannot be changed actually makes its changes easier to
manage.

## The Problem

You have probably built web applications that use forms. They are easy
enough to manage if you only have a few, or a few dozen, but manual
approaches fall apart by the time you have hundreds of distinct forms,
each of which can update the application's state in different ways.

Angular provides some good tools for building forms, but these are not
enough by themselves in very large programs. In particular, `NgForm`
leaves state management entirely in the developer's hands, which quickly
results in unmanageable client-side complexity: a modern single-page
application (SPA) may have to keep track of hundreds of pieces of
information, any of which may need to be updated based on the user's
actions *and* kept in sync with permanent storage on the server.

As if that wasn't complicated enough, many of these interactions have to
be done asynchronously in order to keep the user's FQ (frustration
quotient) down. If, for example, a web page locks up for half a second
every time the user types a single character because it's fetching
possible auto-completes from the server, the user will quickly take her
business somewhere else.

Our problem is therefore this:

> How should we manage client-side state in an asynchronous web
> application that uses forms?

Our solution is:

> Use Redux to represent state as a sequence of snapshots, each of which
> is created in response to a single action.

## Redux in a Hurry

Luckily for us, people who use pure functional programming languages
have been thinking about these issues for more than 30 years, and have
developed some design patterns that we can use in conventional languages
like JavaScript. A *pure functional* language is one in which data
cannot be changed, or *mutated*, in place: once a value is defined, it
is *immutable*. Rather than changing its state, a program written in a
pure functional language creates an entirely new state on which to
operate.

This may seem wasteful: after all, if I want to paint one wall of a
room, I don't have to build an entirely new room that is identical to
the original except for the color of the wall in question. However,
making state immutable has a lot of advantages when we are dealing with
concurrency. In particular, systems are a lot easier to reason about and
test if they can't change under our feet. Pure functional programming
therefore lets us substitute a cheap, plentiful resource–computer
time–for one which is much more expensive–human brain power.

> As we will see below, we can often avoid the need to copy all of the
> state. If we divide it into logically-separate chunks, we can re-use
> the chunks that *don't* change. In our experience, the amount of data
> that actually has to be duplicated will grow slowly with the size of
> the application so long as we think carefully about how to organize
> it.

The system we will use to illustrate this idea is
[Redux](http://redux.js.org/), which is built on three architectural
principles:

1.  There is a **single source of truth**, which in practice means that
    the entire state of the application is stored in a single object
    tree. A good rule of thumb is that this object tree must hold
    everything needed to restore the state of the system after shutdown
    and restart. Storing all this information in one place makes
    debugging a lot easier, and as we shall see, also simplifies
    implementation of things like undo/redo.

2.  **State is read-only**, i.e., the object tree mentioned above is
    *never* modified in place. Instead, the only way to change the state
    is to create an *action* object that describes what change is
    desired. Button click handlers and I/O callbacks never update the
    state themselves, but rather create an action and queue it up to be
    handled sequentially. As a bonus, recording the state changes as
    objects makes replay, debugging, and testing a lot simpler.

3.  **Changes are made by pure functions.** Redux calls these functions
    *reducers*, since they reduce the combination of an existing state
    and an action to a new state. Reducers *never* have side effects:
    they do not modify global variables, write data to disk, or do
    anything else to change the world around them. This allows
    programmers to think about their effects one at a time, and makes it
    easy to combine and re-use them.

As a very short example, suppose we want to implement a traffic light
that switches state between red, amber, and green. The state is an
object with a single field showing the current color of the light:

```javascript
    let state = {color: 'red'};
```

and the reducer cycles between colors:

```javascript
    function changeColor(state, action) {
      switch(action.type) {
    
      case 'NEXT':
        if (state.color == 'red')
          return {color: 'green'};
        else if (state.color == 'green')
          return {color: 'amber'};
        else if (state.color == 'amber')
          return {color: 'red'};
    
      default:
        return state;
      }
    }
```

It's very important that `changeColor` returns the original state
without modification when it doesn't recognize the type of the action it
is being asked to perform, since this allows us to combine reducer
functions without worrying that they will trip over one another. And to
simplify our program, we frequently fold the initialization of the state
into the definition of the reducer by defining the initial state as the
default value for the reducer's first parameter:

```javascript
    function changeColor(state = {color: 'red'}, action) {
      switch(action.type) {
        ...as before...
      }
    }
```

Once this reducer is defined, our application wraps it up to create an
object store, and then sends actions to that store to tell it when to
move to the next state:

```javascript
    import { createStore } from 'redux';
    let store = createStore(changeColor);
    
    for (let i=0; i<10; i++) {
      store.dispatch({type: 'NEXT'});
      console.log(store.getState().color); // red, green, amber, red, ...
    }
```

If we want to add new capabilities, we simply update our reducer:

```javascript
    function changeColor(state, action) {
      switch(action.type) {
    
        case 'NEXT':
          ...as before...
    
        case 'EMERGENCY':
          return {color: 'red'};
    
        default:
          return state;
      }
    }
```

This may seem like a lot of work to manage a single traffic light, but
that work pays off as soon as we have to worry about asynchronous
updates. For example, if we want to do an emergency test of the light
every night at 1:00 am, all we have to do is this:

```javascript
    let delay = until(tomorrow() + ONE_HOUR);
    setTimeout(() => changeColor(state, {type: 'EMERGENCY'}), delay);
```

When the timeout callback is triggered, Redux will put the traffic light
in the required state regardless of what else has gone on or is going
on.

## Setting Up Forms to Work with Redux

As our running example, we will build a set of forms that allow users to
create a wizard for a role-playing game. We created this example for [a
talk](https://github.com/renvrant/formcontrol-freaks) at [NG
Conf 2017](https://www.ng-conf.org/), and the complete source is
[available on
GitHub](https://github.com/danielfigueiredo/wizards-wizard).

Our overall goals are to take advantage of Redux state management to
automatically store our form data in state as form values change, and if
possible to use one mechanism to manage all the forms in our
application. The first step is to plan the shape of our forms. We can
structure the store however we want, but since we know that real
applications evolve, we will define things using TypeScript interfaces
rather than relying on specific concrete classes. That will make it
easier to swap things in and out for testing later on. (It also
encourages us to avoid using `this`, which in turn encourages us to
think more functionally.)

```javascript
    export interface IForm {
      character: ICharacter;        // our single top-level object (for now)
    }
    
    export interface ICharacter {
      name?: string;                // optional name
      bioSummary: IBioSummary;      // biographical information (see below)
      skills: string[];             // list of skills
    }
    
    export interface IBioSummary {
      age: number;                  // age in years
      alignment: string;            // good or bad, lawful or chaotic
      race: string;                 // character's species
    }
```

These interfaces define the shape of a form in our Redux store, which is
the part of the store our reducer will be concerned with in this
example. Defining these interfaces does *not* actually create the
store–we will do that in a moment–but *does* specify the shape of the
objects our reducers will hand back to us.

The form contains a single object representing a character, rather than
using the character itself as the store. That way, if we want to add
other top-level items in future, we won't need to reorganize existing
material. For example, the next version of our application might have
this structure:

```javascript
    export interface IForm {
      character: ICharacter;        // character info
      equipment: IEquipment;        // character's equipment
    }
```

Equally, if we want to add more forms, we won't need to reorganize the
existing material, and we can re-use common actions that work for any
form.

One consequence of this decision is that every action should contain the
path to the particular part of the state it applies to. Agile purists
might say that we shouldn't add this until we need it, and if our
application consisted of just a login form and a message of the day,
they'd be right. However, we have enough experience with applications of
this kind to know that we're going to, and adding that to our
architecture from the start will save us re-work later.

Having decided on the structure of our store, the next step is to define
its initial state. We will do this by creating a literal object that
conforms to the `ICharacter` interface, and another that conforms to the
`IForm` interface:

```javascript
    const characterInitialState: ICharacter = {
      name: undefined,
      bioSummary: {
        age: undefined,
        size: undefined,
        alignment: undefined,
        race: undefined,
      },
      skills: []
    };
    
    const initialState: IForm = {
      character: characterInitialState
    };
```

We could fold the definition of `characterInitialState` into
`initialState` to create one large literal object, but again, since
we're likely to add more state information (like the equipment the
character is carrying), we have decided that `initialState` will only
ever be a list of top-level objects conforming to separately-defined
interfaces.

> We have defined our initial state in a file of its own to make it
> easier to find and update. In a real application, it would probably be
> created programmatically so that we could swap in something else for
> testing. Note that in real life, it would *not* come from a database:
> instead, it's the blank slate that would be updated from a database as
> the application is being bootstrapped. (And yes, that bootstrap
> process would be implemented as a series of update actions.) However
> the initial state is created, it should be as empty as possible.

Another early decision is that we will define functions to create
actions, and that each action will have two elements: a string called
`type` (which Redux requires), and a sub-object called `payload` that
will contain the path to the part of the store it applies to and
whatever extra values are needed to update the state. Redux doesn't
mandate this, but again, experience teaches us that creating literal
objects in many different places throughout our program is just as risky
as using magic numbers rather than defining a constant and referring to
it.

> The name `type` is a requirement: Redux mandates it by exporting an
> `Action` interface defined as:
> 
>     interface Action { type: string }
> 
> The name `payload` is not required, but is widely used and strongly
> encouraged, since in some cases we need to add extra info for our
> actions to be completed:
> 
>     interface PayloadAction extends Action { payload: any }

As an example of an action creation function, here's one that saves a
form's value:

```javascript
    const saveForm = (path, value) => ({
      type: 'SAVE_FORM',
      payload: {
        path: path,
        value: value
      }
    });
```

Now that we know the shapes of our store and our action, the first
version of the reducer is easy to write. To keep it short, we rely on
three helper functions from [Ramda](http://ramdajs.com/), a library of
functional utilities for JavaScript:

  - `assocPath`: makes a shallow clone of an object, replacing the
    specified property with the specified value as it does so. (Think of
    this as "make me a copy of X, but with Y set to Z".)
  - `merge`: create a shallow copy of one object with properties merged
    in from a second object. (This is like `assocPath`, but using a
    second object to get multiple changes at once.)
  - `path`: retrieve the value at a specified location in a structured
    object.

(We could write replacements for these to avoid depending on Ramda, but
we prefer to leverage the work they've put into testing and performance
optimization.) With these helpers in hand, our `formReducer` looks like
this:

```javascript
    import { path, assocPath, merge } from 'ramda';
    
    export function formReducer(state = initialState: IForm, action) {
      switch (action.type) {
    
      case 'SAVE_FORM':
         return assocPath(
           action.payload.path,
           merge(path(action.payload.path, state), action.payload.value),
           state
         );
    
      default:
        return state;
      }
    }
```

There is actually less going on here than first appears. Working from
the outside in, if the action's type is *not* `SAVE_FORM`, then
`formReducer` returns the original state without any changes. This means
that we can safely chain this reducer together with others that handle
other parts of our user interface: as long as they all use distinct keys
for their actions, they will watch the state fly by without doing
anything we don't want them to.

If the action does have the right type, `formReducer` uses `path` to get
the part of the state that needs to be updated, then uses `merge` and
`assocPath` to create a shallow copy of the state, replacing that
element, *and only that element*, with a different value. The most
important word in the previous sentence is "create": at this point, the
state that was passed in is thrown away and a new one created. Some
parts of the old state are recycled–`assocPath` does a shallow clone–but
those are the parts that *weren't* changed, and if other reducers do
their jobs properly, they will replace those parts rather than updating
them in place when it's their turn to act.

## Connecting the Dots

It's now time to turn our attention to the interface that will trigger
this state change and reflect any changes to the state triggered by
other interface components. Since we're using Angular 2, we will define
a class and use the `@Component` decorator to weld some metadata to it:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'character-form',
      template: require('./character-form.html')
    })
    export class CharacterForm {
      @ViewChild(NgForm) ngForm: NgForm;
      public characterForm: IForm;
      private formSubs;
    
      constructor(private ngRedux: NgRedux<IAppState>) {}
    }
```

There's a lot going on here, so we'll start with a high-level
explanation and then dive into details. As the diagram shows, Angular
will keep `ngForm` and `characterForm` in sync with each other using its
own dark magic, which we will see in a moment. In order to synchronize
that with our state, we create a standard observer/observable connection
to make `characterForm` watch the character portion of our Redux state.

![Figure: Redux Flow](handout/images/redux_flow_diagram.png)

Looking once more at the diagram, there is a potential circularity in
the updates. Angular avoids an infinite loop by breaking the cycle when
`characterForm` and the form's actual internal data are the same.

Looking more closely at the code used to create all of this:

  - The `@Component` decorator in the code above tells Angular that this
    class is used to fill in `<character-form>` elements in the
    `character-form.html` template snippet.
  - Using the `@ViewChild` decorator on `ngForm` gives this class an
    instance variable that watches a form. We need this because we are
    going to subscribe to event notifications from that form later on.
  - The `characterForm` instance variable is our working copy of the
    form's state.
  - Finally, `private ngRedux: NgRedux<IAppState>` triggers Angular's
    dependency injection and gives us access to the Redux store. When
    our application is busy doing other things, our data will live in
    this store, and when we're testing, we can inject a mock object here
    to give us more insight.

> The `formSubs` instance variable is the odd one out in this class. Its
> job is to store the observer/observable subscription connecting our
> state to our form so that we can unsubscribe cleanly when this
> component is destroyed. Angular 2 will automatically unsubscribe on
> our behalf, but it's always safer to put our own toys away when we're
> done playing with them…

Since `CharacterForm` is an Angular component, it needs a template to
define how it will be rendered. In keeping with Angular best practices,
we will use a template-driven form and bind its inputs to objects
retrieved from the Redux state. The first part of that form looks like
this:

```javascript
    <form #form="ngForm">
      <label for="name">Character Name:</label>
      <input
        type="text"
        name="name"
        [(ngModel)]="characterForm.name">
    
      <label for="age">Age:</label>
      <input
        type="number"
        name="age"
        [(ngModel)]="characterForm.bioSummary.age">
    </form>
```

`ngModel` is a magic word meaning "the value of this field in the form".
The expression `[(ngModel)]` therefore makes a form control and binds it
to the public data member of our form object. The final step in wiring
all of this together is therefore to subscribe to the Redux state so
that whenever it changes, the changes are automatically pushed into the
form (which triggers a DOM update and a re-rendering of the page).
Equally, since we're listening to the form for changes and writing those
to our state by creating and dispatching actions, anything the user does
will be reflected in the state. The beauty of this is that if anyone
else does an update anywhere, everything will keep itself in sync.

> For the sake of simplicity we are synchronizing the whole form object
> in a single action, which sets the character attribute in the state
> with a brand new object every time. We could instead sync specific
> attributes to improve performance by using the `path` mechanism
> introduced earlier.

It's tempting to put this final piece of wiring in the constructor of
our component, but that doesn't work because Angular has to construct
several objects before any of them can be wired together. This is a key
feature of Angular's architecture (and of the architectures of many
other systems): object *construction* and object *initialization* are
handled separately to free us from headaches related to cyclic
references.

The right place to connect everything is `ngOnInit`, which is called
after all the objects in the system have been created but before any of
them are used. The `ngOnInit` for `CharacterForm` does the two pieces of
wiring described above in an arbitrary order:

```javascript
    ngOnInit() {
    
      // Subscribe to the form in state.
      this.formSubs = this.ngRedux.select(state => state.form.character)
        .subscribe(characterFormState => {
          this.characterForm = characterFormState;
        });
    
      // Dispatch an action when the form is changed.
      this.ngForm.valueChanges.debounceTime(0)
        .subscribe(change =>
          this.ngRedux.dispatch(
            saveForm(
              change,
              ['character']
            )
          )
        );
    }
```

The first half of this method says that when the state changes, we want
to update the form. We use `ngRedux.select` with a fat arrow function as
callback to pick out the character portion of the state, then subscribe
to that with a another fat arrow callback that updates the form data
(which as explained above triggers redisplay).

The second half of `ngOnInit` does the binding in the opposite
direction: whenever the form changes, we dispatch an action created by
`saveForm` that has `SAVE_FORM` as the change and `['character']` as the
path to the part of the state we want to modify. `ngForm`'s
`valueChanges` method automatically gives us a `change` value that
contains all of the form values. These values arrive in a JavaScript
object that mirrors the structure of the HTML, which is exactly what we
want (because we defined the name attributes to get it).

And that's it: every change to our form triggers creation of a new
state, and every change to our state triggered by anything else is
immediately reflected in our form. We *aren't* saving the state to disk,
but that's best left to some kind of middleware (which can be smart
about only persisting the bits of state that have actually changed
between updates).

## Filling in the Gaps

The only meaningful way to assess an architectural decision is to ask
whether it makes things comprehensible today and easy to change
tomorrow. Given all of the plumbing introduced above, you might think
that our architecture falls short on both counts, but it turns out that
it actually simplifies application evolution. To see this, let's have a
look at how it helps us handle multi-valued forms, which Angular doesn't
support out of the box.

As the name suggests, a multi-valued form is one that can have many
values at once, such as a multi-select dropdown list. The natural way to
store these values is in an array, such as the one shown below for
storing a character's skills:

```javascript
    character: {
      skills: ['Drinking', 'Knowing Things'],
    }
```

The first step in adding support for multi-valued fields to our
application is to define actions that manipulate arrays–or more
precisely, to define functions that create actions that tell Redux how
to generate a new array from an old one:

```javascript
    const addIntoArray = (path, value) => ({
      type: 'ADD_INDEXED_FORM_VALUE',
      payload: { path, value }
    });
    
    const putInArray = (path, value, index) => ({
      type: 'UPDATE_INDEXED_FORM_VALUE',
      payload: { path, value, index }
    });
    
    const removeFromArray = (index, path) => ({
      type: 'REMOVE_INDEXED_FORM_VALUE',
      payload: { index, path }
    });
```

There's nothing exciting going on here: each function creates an action
with a `type` (again, required by Redux) and a `payload` (our own term).
To cut down on typing, we make use of the fact that `{a, b}` is a
shorthand for `{a: a, b: b}`:

```javascript
    let a = 'A';
    let b = 'B';
    let both = {a, b};
    console.log(both);
```

```javascript
    {a: 'A', b: 'B'}
```

The payload of the action returned by `addIntoArray` therefore has two
keys called `path` and `value`, which are in turn bound to whatever was
passed in for the parameters with the corresponding names.

Once we have these actions, the next step is to update our reducer by
adding the following case:

```javascript
    case 'ADD_INDEXED_FORM_VALUE':
      const lensForProp = lensPath(action.payload.path);
      const propValue = <any[]> view(lensForProp, state);
      return assocPath(
        action.payload.path,
        concat(propValue, [action.payload.value]),
        state
      );
```

Again, we're using Ramda functions to create a new array of skills given
an old array and the thing we want to add: `lensForProp` is the location
of the skills array in our state, `propValue` is its current value, and
`concat` wrapped up in `assocPath` gives us the old skills with the new
one appended. The additions to handle updating and removing skills have
a similar shape.

Extending our user interface is equally easy. We start with a helper
function that creates and dispatches the required action:

```javascript
    addSkill() {
      this.ngRedux.dispatch(addIntoArray({
        value: undefined,
        path: [ 'character', 'skills' ]
      }));
    }
```

We have put this in the form component, but neither Angular nor good
design principles strictly require this: we could have put it (and
similar functions) in a file full of utilities.

Now that we have the functions we need, we can write the HTML needed to
put everything in front of the user:

```javascript
    <label>Skills:</label>
    
    <div *ngFor="let skillSlot of characterForm.skills; let i = index;">
      <select
        [value]="skillSlot"
        (change)="onSelectSkill($event, i)">
        <option *ngFor="let skill of skills" [value]="skill">
          {{ skill }}
        </option>
      </select>
      <button type="button" (click)="removeSkill(i)">Remove</button>
    </div>
    
    <button type="button" (click)="addSkill()">Add skill</button>
```

The last line of this HTML is the one that lets users add skills; the
rest is to handle skill display and removal.

## The Payoff: Validation

One way to see how these changes pays off is to look at validation, and
in particular at the way in which we can use *selectors* to compute data
by composing functions, and then use *memoization* to make state changes
more efficient.

> For those who wish to be more precise, we should distinguish between
> selectors as a general concept and selectors as implemented by the
> `reselect` library that we're using. The memoization benefits come
> from `reselect`, but the general benefit of using a selector for
> validation is that you can derive the validity of your form from the
> data you already have without having to dispatch extra actions like
> `VALIDATE_FIELD`.

Selectors chain functions together and pipe their return values into the
last function in the chain. In the simple code below, the selector will
return `form.character`:

```javascript
    const formStateSelector = (state: IAppState) => state.form;
    
    const characterFormSelector = createSelector(
      formStateSelector,
      (form: IForm) => form.character
    );
```

With that in hand, let's write a validation function that checks that
all required fields are present and add it to our component:

```javascript
    export const isFormValid = createSelector(
      characterFormSelector,
      character => character.name
        && character.bioSummary.age
        && character.skills.length > 0
    );
    
    @select(isFormValidSelector)
    isFormValid$: Observable<boolean>;
```

Now, after selecting, we can use `isFormValid$` with an asynchronous
pipe in our template:

```javascript
    <button 
      [disabled]="!(isFormValid$ | async)"
      type="submit">
      Save
    </button>
```

(The `$` on the end of `isFormValid$` is a naming convention used in the
RxJS library and elsewhere meaning, "This is an observable." We don't
have to use it, but we find it helps make code easier to understand.)

We can now go ahead and create specific rules for specific fields of our
form using a helper function called `isBetweenNumber` that does exactly
what you'd expect:

```javascript
    const humanAgeValid = isBetweenNumber(14, 40);
    const elfAgeValid = isBetweenNumber(80, 800);
    const tieflingAgeValid = isBetweenNumber(35, 53);
    
    const bioSummarySelector = createSelector(
      characterFormSelector,
      ({bioSummary}: ICharacter) => bioSummary
    );
    
    const ageValidationSelector = createSelector(
      bioSummarySelector,
      (bioSummary: IBioSummary) => {
        switch (bioSummary.race) {
          case 'Human': return humanAgeValid;
          case 'Elf': return elfAgeValid;
          case 'Tiefling': return tieflingAgeValid;
        }
      }
    );
    
    export const isAgeValidSelector = createSelector(
      bioSummarySelector,
      ageValidationSelector,
      ({age}, isAgeValid) => isAgeValid(age)
    );
```

Once we have a pile of validation rules for our fields, we can chain
those selectors together like this:

```javascript
    const isFormValidSelector = createSelector(
      isAgeValidSelector,
      isNameValidSelector,
      (ageValid, nameValid) => ageValid && nameValid
    );
```

In larger applications, we can and should go further and make selectors
out of reusable validation functions:

```javascript
    const maxStringLengthValidation = (value: string, max: number) =>
      value.length < max;
    
    const minStringLengthValidation = (value: string, min: number) =>
      value.length > min;
    
    const isNameValidSelector = createSelector(
      createFormFieldSelector(['character', 'name']),
      (name: string) => maxStringLengthValidation(name, 50)
        && minStringLengthValidation(name, 3)
    );
```

We can make our application more user-friendly by subscribing to the
selectors we've made and using them in our template:

```javascript
    @select(isAgeValidSelector)
      isAgeValid$: Observable<boolean>;
    
    @select(isNameValidSelector)
      isNameValid$: Observable<boolean>;
```

Since we have access to Angular's `FormControl` states, we can use them
to show error messages:

```javascript
    <input
      type="text"
      name="name"
      #nameField="ngModel"
      [(ngModel)]="characterForm.name">
    <div
      [hidden]="isNameValid || nameField.control.pristine">
      Name must be between 3 and 50 characters
    </div>
```

## Conclusion

One of the things that makes it hard to discuss software architecture is
that the solutions to big problems inevitably look like overkill when
applied to small ones. If all we ever wanted to do was manage the names,
ages, and skill sets of wizards, and if the entire application was only
ever going to be maintained by its original author, we wouldn't want or
need all of the machinery introduced above. However, these assumptions
all too easily become self-fulfilling prophecies. If we don't architect
our software to accommodate both expansion of function and expansion of
the development team, both will be so painful that we won't do them.

Our experience is that combining Angular 2 forms with Redux for state
management pays off sooner than you would think. Testing is a lot easier
when all checks on changes to an application's state can be written as
before-and-after rules. (To see how much easier, compare the [Redux
testing examples](http://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/WritingTests.html) to
whatever you're doing now.) Just as importantly, a single reducer can
often be used for many forms, and generic actions can be re-used as
well. For example, most of what we wrote above to handle character
skills can be used to keep track of how many potions and scrolls they
are carrying as well.

Of course, nothing is ever free. In large applications, it's important
to design the structure of the Redux store so that new instances of it
can be created quickly, and so that the next programmer to inherit the
application can easily figure out which parts of the state to update
when. We are also still learning how best to co-design reusable parts of
forms and reusable parts of state so that reducers can be packaged and
re-used as black boxes. Just as careful design of state makes the
computer more efficient, careful co-design of components will, we hope,
allow programmers to be more efficient. If you would like to share your
experiences with this, we'd enjoy hearing from you.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# ES6

JavaScript was created in 1995, but the language is still thriving
today. There are subsets, supersets, current versions and the latest
version ES6 that brings a lot of new features.

Some of the highlights:

  - Classes
  - Arrow Functions
  - Template Strings
  - Inheritance
  - Constants and Block Scoped Variables
  - Spread and Rest operators
  - Destructuring
  - Modules

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Classes

Classes are a new feature in ES6, used to describe the blueprint of an
object and make EcmaScript's prototypical inheritance model function
more like a traditional class-based language.

```javascript
    class Hamburger {
      constructor() {
        // This is the constructor.
      }
      listToppings() {
        // This is a method.
      }
    }
```

Traditional class-based languages often reserve the word `this` to
reference the current (runtime) instance of the class. In Javascript
`this` refers to the calling context and therefore can change to be
something other than the object.

## Object

An object is an instance of a class which is created using the `new`
operator. When using a dot notation to access a method on the object,
`this` will refer to the object to the left of the dot.

```javascript
    let burger = new Hamburger();
    burger.listToppings();
```

In the snippet above, whenever `this` is used from inside class
Hamburger, it will refer to object `burger`.

## Changing Caller Context

JavaScript code can *optionally* supply `this` to a method at call time
using one of the following.

  - Function.prototype.call(object \[,arg, ...\])
  - Function.prototype.bind(object \[,arg, ...\])
  - Function.prototype.apply(object \[,argsArray\])

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# A Refresher on `this`

Inside a JavaScript class we'll be using `this` keyword to refer to the
instance of the class. E.g., consider this case:

```javascript
    class Toppings {
      ...
    
      formatToppings() { /* implementation details */ }
    
      list() {
        return this.formatToppings(this.toppings);
      }
    }
```

Here `this` refers to an instance of the `Toppings` class. As long as
the `list` method is called using dot notation, like
`myToppings.list()`, then `this.formatToppings(this.toppings)` invokes
the `formatToppings()` method defined on the instance of the class. This
will also ensure that inside `formatToppings`, `this` refers to the same
instance.

However, `this` can also refer to other things. There are two basic
cases that you should remember.

1.  Method invocation:
    
    ```javascript 
      someObject.someMethod();
    ```
    
    Here, `this` used inside `someMethod` will refer to `someObject`,
    which is usually what you want.

2.  Function invocation:
    
    ```javascript 
      someFunction();
    ```
    
    Here, `this` used inside `someFunction` can refer to different
    things depending on whether we are in "strict" mode or not. Without
    using the "strict" mode, `this` refers to the context in which
    `someFunction()` was called. This is rarely what you want, and it
    can be confusing when `this` is not what you were expecting, because
    of where the function was called from. In "strict" mode, `this`
    would be undefined, which is slightly less confusing.

[View Example](http://jsbin.com/vekawimihe/2/edit?js,console)

One of the implications is that you cannot easily detach a method from
its object. Consider this example:

```javascipt
  var log = console.log;
  log('Hello');
```

In many browsers this will give you an error. That's because `log`
expects `this` to refer to `console`, but the reference was lost when
the function was detached from `console`.

This can be fixed by setting `this` explicitly. One way to do this is by
using `bind()` method, which allows you to specify the value to use for
`this` inside the bound function.

```javascipt
  var log = console.log.bind(console);
  log('Hello');
```

You can also achieve the same using `Function.call` and
`Function.apply`, but we won't discuss this here.

Another instance where `this` can be confusing is with respect to
anonymous functions, or functions declared within other functions.
Consider the following:

```javascript
    class ServerRequest {
       notify() {
         ...
       }
       fetch() {
         getFromServer(function callback(err, data) {
            this.notify(); // this is not going to work
         });
       }
    }
```

In the above case `this` will *not* point to the expected object: in
"strict" mode it will be `undefined`. This leads to another ES6 feature
- arrow functions, which will be covered next.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Arrow Functions

ES6 offers some new syntax for dealing with `this`: "arrow functions".  
Arrow functions also make higher order functions much easier to work
with.

The new "fat arrow" notation can be used to define anonymous functions
in a simpler way.

Consider the following example:

```javascript 
  items.forEach(function(x) {
    console.log(x);
    incrementedItems.push(x+1);
  });
```

This can be rewritten as an "arrow function" using the following syntax:

```javascript 
  items.forEach((x) => {
    console.log(x);
    incrementedItems.push(x+1);
  });
```

Functions that calculate a single expression and return its values can
be defined even simpler:

```javascript 
  incrementedItems = items.map((x) => x+1);
```

The latter is *almost* equivalent to the following:

```javascript 
  incrementedItems = items.map(function (x) {
    return x+1;
  });
```

There is one important difference, however: arrow functions do not set a
local copy of `this`, `arguments`, `super`, or `new.target`. When `this`
is used inside an arrow function JavaScript uses the `this` from the
outer scope. Consider the following example:

```javascript
    class Toppings {
      constructor(toppings) {
        this.toppings = Array.isArray(toppings) ? toppings : [];
      }
      outputList() {
        this.toppings.forEach(function(topping, i) {
          console.log(topping, i + '/' + this.toppings.length);  // `this` will be undefined
        });
      }
    }
    
    var myToppings = new Toppings(['cheese', 'lettuce']);
    
    myToppings.outputList();
```

Let's try this code on
[http://jsbin.com](http://jsbin.com/qakigoqulo/edit?js,console). As we
see, this gives us an error, since `this` is undefined inside the
anonymous function.

Now, let's change the method to use the arrow function:

```javascript
    class Toppings {
      constructor(toppings) {
        this.toppings = Array.isArray(toppings) ? toppings : [];
      }
      outputList() {
        this.toppings.forEach((topping, i) => {
          console.log(topping, i + '/' + this.toppings.length)  // `this` works!
        });
      }
    }
    
    var myToppings = new Toppings(['cheese', 'lettuce']);
    
    myToppings.outputList();
```

Let's try this code on
[http://jsbin.com](http://jsbin.com/tulikutife/edit?js,console). Here
`this` inside the arrow function refers to the instance variable.

*Warning* arrow functions do *not* have their own `arguments` variable,
which can be confusing to veteran JavaScript programmers. `super` and
`new.target` are also scoped from the outer enclosure.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Template Strings

In traditional JavaScript, text that is enclosed within matching `"` or
`'` marks is considered a string. Text within double or single quotes
can only be on one line. There was no way to insert data into these
strings. This resulted in a lot of ugly concatenation code that looked
like:

```javascript
    var name = 'Sam';
    var age = 42;
    
    console.log('hello my name is ' + name + ' I am ' + age + ' years old');
```

ES6 introduces a new type of string literal that is marked with back
ticks (\`). These string literals *can* include newlines, and there is a
string interpolation for inserting variables into strings:

```javascript
    var name = 'Sam';
    var age = 42;
    
    console.log(`hello my name is ${name}, and I am ${age} years old`);
```

There are all sorts of places where this kind of string can come in
handy, and front-end web development is one of them.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Inheritance

JavaScript's inheritance works differently from inheritance in other
languages, which can be very confusing. ES6 classes provide a syntactic
sugar attempting to alleviate the issues with using prototypical
inheritance present in ES5.

To illustrate this, let's image we have a zoo application where types of
birds are created. In classical inheritance, we define a base class and
then subclass it to create a derived class.

## Subclassing

The example code below shows how to derive `Penguin` from `Bird` using
the **extends** keyword. Also pay attention to the **super** keyword
used in the subclass constructor of `Penguin`, it is used to pass the
argument to the base class `Bird`'s constructor.

The `Bird` class defines the method *walk* which is inherited by the
`Penguin` class and is available for use by instance of `Penguin`
objects. Likewise the `Penguin` class defines the method *swim* which is
not avilable to `Bird` objects. Inheritance works top-down from base
class to its subclass.

## Object Initialization

The class constructor is called when an object is created using the
**new** operator, it will be called before the object is fully created.
A consturctor is used to pass in arguments to initialize the newly
created object.

The order of object creation starts from its base class and then moves
down to any subclass(es).

```javascript
    // Base Class : ES6
    class Bird {
      constructor(weight, height) {
        this.weight = weight;
        this.height = height;
      }
    
      walk() {
        console.log('walk!');
      }
    }
    
    // Subclass
    class Penguin extends Bird {
      constructor(weight, height) {
        super(weight, height);
      }
    
      swim() {
        console.log('swim!');
      }
    }
    
    // Penguin object
    let penguin = new Penguin(...);
    penguin.walk(); //walk!
    penguin.swim(); //swim!
```

Below we show how prototypal inheritance was done before class was
introduced to JavaScript.

```javascript
    // JavaScript classical inheritance.
    
    // Bird constructor
    function Bird(weight, height) {
      this.weight = weight;
      this.height = height;
    }
    
    // Add method to Bird prototype.
    Bird.prototype.walk = function() {
      console.log("walk!");
    };
    
    // Penguin constructor.
    function Penguin(weight, height) {
       Bird.call(this, weight, height);
    }
    
    // Prototypal inheritance (Penguin is-a Bird).
    Penguin.prototype = Object.create( Bird.prototype );
    Penguin.prototype.constructor = Penguin;
    
    // Add method to Penguin prototype.
    Penguin.prototype.swim = function() {
      console.log("swim!");
    };
    
    // Create a Penguin object.
    let penguin = new Penguin(50,10);
    
    // Calls method on Bird, since it's not defined by Penguin.
    penguin.walk(); // walk!
    
    // Calls method on Penguin.
    penguin.swim(); // swim!
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Delegation

In the inheritance section we looked at one way to extend a class
functionality, there is second way using delegation to extend
functionality. With delegation, one object will contain a reference to a
different object that it will hand off a request to perform the
functionality.

The code below shows how to use delegation with the `Bird` class and
`Penguin` class. The `Penguin` class has a reference to the `Bird` class
and it delegates the call made to it's *walk* method over to `Bird`'s
*walk* method.

```javascript
    // ES6
    class Bird {
      constructor(weight, height) {
        this.weight = weight;
        this.height = height;
      }
      walk() {
        console.log('walk!');
      }
    }
    
    class Penguin {
      constructor(bird) {
        this.bird = bird;
      }
      walk() {
        this.bird.walk();
      }
      swim() {
        console.log('swim!');
      }
    }
    
    const bird = new Bird(...);
    const penguin = new Penguin(bird);
    penguin.walk(); //walk!
    penguin.swim(); //swim!
```

A good discussion on 'behaviour delegation' can be found
[here](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/this%20%26%20object%20prototypes/ch6.md).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Constants and Block Scoped Variables

ES6 introduces the concept of block scoping. Block scoping will be
familiar to programmers from other languages like C, Java, or even PHP.
In ES5 JavaScript and earlier, `var`s are scoped to `function`s, and
they can "see" outside their functions to the outer context.

```javascript
    var five = 5;
    var threeAlso = three; // error
    
    function scope1() {
      var three = 3;
      var fiveAlso = five; // == 5
      var sevenAlso = seven; // error
    }
    
    function scope2() {
      var seven = 7;
      var fiveAlso = five; // == 5
      var threeAlso = three; // error
    }
```

In ES5 functions were essentially containers that could be "seen" out
of, but not into.

In ES6 `var` still works that way, using functions as containers, but
there are two new ways to declare variables: `const` and `let`.

`const` and `let` use `{` and `}` blocks as containers, hence "block
scope". Block scoping is most useful during loops. Consider the
following:

```javascript
    var i;
    for (i = 0; i < 10; i += 1) {
      var j = i;
      let k = i;
    }
    console.log(j); // 9
    console.log(k); // undefined
```

Despite the introduction of block scoping, functions are still the
preferred mechanism for dealing with most loops.

`let` works like `var` in the sense that its data is read/write. `let`
is also useful when used in a for loop. For example, without let, the
following example would output `5,5,5,5,5`:

```javascript
    for(var x=0; x<5; x++) {
      setTimeout(()=>console.log(x), 0)
    }
```

However, when using `let` instead of `var`, the value would be scoped in
a way that people would expect.

```javascript
    for(let x=0; x<5; x++) {
      setTimeout(()=>console.log(x), 0)
    }
```

Alternatively, `const` is read-only. Once `const` has been assigned, the
identifier cannot be reassigned.

For example:

```javascript
    const myName = 'pat';
    let yourName = 'jo';
    
    yourName = 'sam'; // assigns
    myName = 'jan';   // error
```

The read-only nature can be demonstrated with any object:

```javascript
    const literal = {};
    
    literal.attribute = 'test'; // fine
    literal = []; // error;
```

However there are two cases where **const** does not work as you think
it should.

1.  A const object literal.
2.  A const reference to an object.

## Const Object Literal

```javascript
    const person = {
      name: 'Tammy'
    };
    
    person.name = 'Pushpa'; // OK, name property changed.
    
    person = null;          // "TypeError: Assignment to constant variable.
```

The example above demonstrates that we are able to change the **name**
property of object person, but we are unable to reset the reference
**person** since it has been marked as `const`.

## Const Reference To An Object

Something similar to the above code is using a `const` reference, below
we've switch to using **let** for the literal object.

```javascript
    let person = {
      name: 'Tammy'
    };
    
    const p = person;
    
    p.name = 'Pushpa'; // OK, name property changed.
    
    p = null;          // "TypeError: Assignment to constant variable.
```

Take away, marking an object reference **const** does not make
properties inside the object
const.

[Ref:](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Spread Syntax (Spread Element) and Rest parameters

A Spread syntax allows in-place expansion of an expression for the
following cases:

1.  Array
2.  Function call
3.  Multiple variable destructuring

Rest parameters works in the opposite direction of the spread syntax, it
collects an indefinite number of comma separated expressions into an
array.

## Spread Syntax

Spread example:

```javascript
    const add = (a, b) => a + b;
    let args = [3, 5];
    add(...args); // same as `add(args[0], args[1])`, or `add.apply(null, args)`
```

Functions aren't the only place in JavaScript that makes use of comma
separated lists - arrays can now be concatenated with ease:

```javascript
    let cde = ['c', 'd', 'e'];
    let scale = ['a', 'b', ...cde, 'f', 'g'];  // ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f', 'g']
```

Similarly, object literals can do the same thing:

```javascript
    let mapABC  = { a: 5, b: 6, c: 3};
    let mapABCD = { ...mapABC, d: 7};  // { a: 5, b: 6, c: 3, d: 7 }
```

## Rest parameter

Rest parameters share the ellipsis like syntax of spread syntax but are
used for a different purpose. Rest parameters are used to access
indefinite number of arguments passed to a function. For example:

```javascript
    function addSimple(a, b) {
      return a + b;
    }
    
    function add(...numbers) {
      return numbers[0] + numbers[1];
    }
    
    addSimple(3, 2);  // 5
    add(3, 2);        // 5
    
    // or in es6 style:
    const addEs6 = (...numbers) => numbers.reduce((p, c) => p + c, 0);
    
    addEs6(1, 2, 3);  // 6
```

Technically JavaScript already had an `arguments` variable set on each
function (except for arrow functions), however `arguments` has a lot of
issues, one of which is the fact that it is not technically an array.

Rest parameters are in fact arrays which provides access to methods like
`map, filter, reduce and more`. The other important difference is that
rest parameters only include arguments not specifically named in a
function like so:

```javascript
    function print(a, b, c, ...more) {
      console.log(more[0]);
      console.log(arguments[0]);
    }
    
    print(1, 2, 3, 4, 5);
    // 4
    // 1
```

*Note: Commonly spread syntax and rest parameters are referenced as
Spread and Rest operators but they aren't operators according to
ECMAScript specifications. Few references [MDN-Spread
Syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_operator),
[MDN-Rest
Parameters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/rest_parameters),
[ECMAScript Spec - Spread
Syntax](http://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/6.0/#sec-array-initializer),
[ECMAScript Spec - Rest
Parameters](http://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/6.0/#sec-function-definitions)*

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Destructuring

Destructuring is a way to quickly extract data out of an `{}` or `[]`
without having to write much code.

To [borrow from the
MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment "MDN Destructuring"),
destructuring can be used to turn the following:

```javascript
    let foo = ['one', 'two', 'three'];
    
    let one   = foo[0];
    let two   = foo[1];
    let three = foo[2];
```

into

```javascript
    let foo = ['one', 'two', 'three'];
    let [one, two, three] = foo;
    console.log(one); // 'one'
```

This is pretty interesting, but at first it might be hard to see the use
case. ES6 also supports object destructuring, which might make uses more
obvious:

```javascript
    let myModule = {
      drawSquare: function drawSquare(length) { /* implementation */ },
      drawCircle: function drawCircle(radius) { /* implementation */ },
      drawText: function drawText(text) { /* implementation */ },
    };
    
    let {drawSquare, drawText} = myModule;
    
    drawSquare(5);
    drawText('hello');
```

Destructuring can also be used for passing objects into a function,
allowing you to pull specific properties out of an object in a concise
manner. It is also possible to assign default values to destructured
arguments, which can be a useful pattern if passing in a configuration
object.

```javascript
    let jane = { firstName: 'Jane', lastName: 'Doe'};
    let john = { firstName: 'John', lastName: 'Doe', middleName: 'Smith' }
    function sayName({firstName, lastName, middleName = 'N/A'}) {
      console.log(`Hello ${firstName} ${middleName} ${lastName}`)  
    }
    
    sayName(jane) // -> Hello Jane N/A Doe
    sayName(john) // -> Helo John Smith Doe
```

There are many more sophisticated things that can be done with
destructuring, and the
[MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment "MDN Destructuring")
has some great examples, including nested object destructuring and
dynamic destructuring with `for ... in` operators".

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# ES6 Modules

ES6 introduced *module* support. A module in ES6 is single file that
allows code and data to be isolated, it helps in organizing and grouping
code logically. In other languages it's called a package or library.

All code and data inside the module has file scope, what this means is
they are not accessible from code outside the module. To share code or
data outside a module, it needs to be exported using the **export**
keyword.

```javascript
    // File: circle.js
    
    export const pi = 3.141592;
    
    export const circumference = diameter => diameter * pi;
```

The code above uses the *Arrow* function for `circumference`. Read more
about arrow functions
[here](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/features/arrow_functions.html)

## Module Systems

Using a module on the backend(server side) is relatively
straightforward, you simply make use of the **import** keyword. However
Web Browsers have no concept of modules or import, they just know how to
load javascript code. We need a way to bring in a javascript module to
start using it from other javascript code. This is where a module loader
comes in.

We won't get into the various module systems out there, but it's worth
understanding there are various module loaders available. The popular
choices out there are:

  - RequireJS
  - SystemJS
  - Webpack

## Loading a Module From a Browser

Below we make use of SystemJS to load a module. The script first loads
the code for the SystemJS library, then the function call
**System.import** is use to import(load) the *app* module.

Loading ES6 modules is a little trickier. In an ES6-compliant browser
you use the System keyword to load modules asynchronously. To make our
code work with current browsers, however, we will use the SystemJS
library as a polyfill:

```javascript 
  <script src="/node_module/systemjs/dist/system.js"></script>
  <script>
    var promise = System.import('app')
      .then(function() {
        console.log('Loaded!');
      })
      .then(null, function(error) {
        console.error('Failed to load:', error);
      });
  </script>
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# TypeScript

ES6 is the current version of JavaScript. TypeScript is a superset of
ES6, which means all ES6 features are part of TypeScript, but not all
TypeScript features are part of ES6. Consequently, TypeScript must be
transpiled into ES5 to run in most browsers.

One of TypeScript's primary features is the addition of type
information, hence the name. This type information can help make
JavaScript programs more predictable and easier to reason about.

Types let developers write more explicit "contracts". In other words,
things like function signatures are more explicit.

Without TS:

```javascript
    function add(a, b) {
      return a + b;
    }
    
    add(1, 3);   // 4
    add(1, '3'); // '13'
```

With TS:

```javascript
    function add(a: number, b: number) {
      return a + b;
    }
    
    add(1, 3);   // 4
    // compiler error before JS is even produced
    add(1, '3'); // '13'
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Getting Started With TypeScript


```javascript
    $ npm install -g typescript
```

Then use `tsc` to manually compile a TypeScript source file into ES5:

```javascript
    $ tsc test.ts
    $ node test.js
```

#### Note About ES6 Examples

Our earlier ES6 class won't compile now. TypeScript is more demanding
than ES6 and it expects instance properties to be declared:

```javascript
    class Pizza {
      toppings: string[];
      constructor(toppings: string[]) {
        this.toppings = toppings;
      }
    }
```

Note that now that we've declared `toppings` to be an array of strings,
TypeScript will enforce this. If we try to assign a number to it, we
will get an error at compilation time.

If you want to have a property that can be set to a value of any type,
however, you can still do this: just declare its type to be "any":

```javascript
    class Pizza {
      toppings: any;
      //...
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Working With `tsc`

So far `tsc` has been used to compile a single file. Typically
programmers have a lot more than one file to compile. Thankfully `tsc`
can handle multiple files as arguments.

Imagine two ultra simple files/modules:

a.ts

```javascript
    export const A = (a) => console.log(a);
```

b.ts

```javascript
    export const B = (b) => console.log(b);
```

Before TypeScript@1.8.2:

```javascript
    $ tsc ./a.ts ./b.ts
    a.ts(1,1): error TS1148: Cannot compile modules unless the '--module' flag is provided.
```

Hmmm. What's the deal with this module flag? TypeScript has a help menu,
let's take a look:

```javascript
    $ tsc --help | grep module
     -m KIND, --module KIND             Specify module code generation: 'commonjs', 'amd', 'system', 'umd' or 'es2015'
     --moduleResolution                 Specifies module resolution strategy: 'node' (Node.js) or 'classic' (TypeScript pre-1.6).
```

(TypeScript has more help than what we've shown; we filtered by `grep`
for brevity.) There are two help entries that reference "module", and
`--module` is the one TypeScript was complaining about. The description
explains that TypeScript supports a number of different module schemes.
For the moment `commonjs` is desirable. This will produce modules that
are compatible with node.js's module system.

```javascript
    $ tsc -m commonjs ./a.ts ./b.ts
```

Since TypeScript@1.8.2, `tsc` has a default rule for `--module` option:
`target === 'ES6' ? 'ES6' : 'commonjs'` (more details can be found
[here](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html)),
so we can simply run:

```javascript
    $ tsc ./a.ts ./b.ts
```

`tsc` should produce no output. In many command line traditions, no
output is actually a mark of success. Listing the directory contents
will confirm that our TypeScript files did in fact compile.

```javascript
    $ ls
    a.js    a.ts    b.js    b.ts
```

Excellent - there are now two JavaScript modules ready for consumption.

Telling the `tsc` command what to compile becomes tedious and labor
intensive even on small projects. Fortunately TypeScript has a means of
simplifying this. `tsconfig.json` files let programmers write down all
the compiler settings they want. When `tsc` is run, it looks for
`tsconfig.json` files and uses their rules to compile JavaScript.

For Angular projects there are a number of specific settings that need
to be configured in a project's `tsconfig.json`

```javascript
    {
     "compilerOptions": {
        "module": "commonjs",
        "target": "es5",
        "emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
        "experimentalDecorators": true,
        "noImplicitAny": false,
        "removeComments": false,
        "sourceMap": true
      },
      "exclude": [
        "node_modules",
        "dist/"
      ]
    }
```

#### Target

The compilation target. TypeScript supports targeting different
platforms depending on your needs. In our case, we're targeting modern
browsers which support ES5.

#### Module

The target module resolution interface. We're integrating TypeScript
through webpack which supports different interfaces. We've decided to
use node's module resolution interface, `commonjs`.

#### Decorators

Decorator support in TypeScript [hasn't been finalized
yet](http://rbuckton.github.io/ReflectDecorators/typescript.html) but
since Angular uses decorators extensively, these need to be set to true.
Decorators have not been introduced yet, and will be covered later in
this section.

#### TypeScript with Webpack

We won't be running `tsc` manually, however. Instead, webpack's
`ts-loader` will do the transpilation during the build:

``` 
  // webpack.config.js
  //...
  rules: [
    { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'ts', exclude: /node_modules/ },
    //...
  ]
```

This loader calls `tsc` for us, and it will use our `tsconfig.json`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Typings

Astute readers might be wondering what happens when TypeScript
programmers need to interface with JavaScript modules that have no type
information. TypeScript recognizes files labelled `*.d.ts` as
*definition* files. These files are meant to use TypeScript to describe
interfaces presented by JavaScript libraries.

There are communities of people dedicated to creating typings for
JavaScript projects. There is also a utility called `typings` (`npm
install --save-dev typings`) that can be used to manage third party
typings from a variety of sources. (*Deprecated in TypeScript 2.0*)

In TypeScript 2.0, users can get type files directly from `@types`
through `npm` (for example, `npm install --save @types/lodash` will
install `lodash` type file).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Linting

Many editors support the concept of "linting" - a grammar check for
computer programs. Linting can be done in a programmer's editor and/or
through automation.

For TypeScript there is a package called `tslint`, (`npm install
--save-dev tslint`) which can be plugged into many editors. `tslint` can
also be configured with a `tslint.json` file.

Webpack can run `tslint` before it attempts to run `tsc`. This is done
by installing `tslint-loader` (`npm install --save-dev tslint-loader`)
which plugs into webpack like so:

```javascript
    // ...
    module: {
      preLoaders: [
        { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'tslint' }
      ],
      loaders: [
        { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'ts', exclude: /node_modules/ },
        // ...
      ]
      // ...
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# TypeScript Features

Now that producing JavaScript from TypeScript code has been
de-mystified, some of its features can be described and experimented
with.

  - Types
  - Interfaces
  - Shapes
  - Decorators

## Types

Many people do not realize it, but JavaScript *does* in fact have types,
they're just "duck typed", which roughly means that the programmer does
not have to think about them. JavaScript's types also exist in
TypeScript:

  - `boolean` (true/false)
  - `number` integers, floats, `Infinity` and `NaN`
  - `string` characters and strings of characters
  - `[]` Arrays of other types, like `number[]` or `boolean[]`
  - `{}` Object literal
  - `undefined` not set

TypeScript also adds

  - `enum` enumerations like `{ Red, Blue, Green }`
  - `any` use any type
  - `void` nothing

Primitive type example:

```javascript
    let isDone: boolean = false;
    let height: number = 6;
    let name: string = "bob";
    let list: number[] = [1, 2, 3];
    let list: Array<number> = [1, 2, 3];
    enum Color {Red, Green, Blue};
    let c: Color = Color.Green;
    let notSure: any = 4;
    notSure = "maybe a string instead";
    notSure = false; // okay, definitely a boolean
    
    function showMessage(data: string): void {
      alert(data);
    }
    showMessage('hello');
```

This illustrates the primitive types in TypeScript, and ends by
illustrating a `showMessage` function. In this function the parameters
have specific types that are checked when `tsc` is run.

In many JavaScript functions it's quite common for functions to take
optional parameters. TypeScript provides support for this, like so:

```javascript
    function logMessage(message: string, isDebug?: boolean) {
      if (isDebug) {
        console.log('Debug: ' + message);
      } else {
        console.log(message);
      }
    }
    logMessage('hi');         // 'hi'
    logMessage('test', true); // 'Debug: test'
```

Using a `?` lets `tsc` know that `isDebug` is an optional parameter.
`tsc` will not complain if `isDebug` is omitted.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# TypeScript Classes

TypeScript also treats `class`es as their own type:

```javascript
    class Foo { foo: number; }
    class Bar { bar: string; }
    
    class Baz { 
      constructor(foo: Foo, bar: Bar) { }
    }
    
    let baz = new Baz(new Foo(), new Bar()); // valid
    baz = new Baz(new Bar(), new Foo());     // tsc errors
```

Like function parameters, `class`es sometimes have optional members. The
same `?:` syntax can be used on a `class` definition:

```javascript
    class Person {
      name: string;
      nickName?: string;
    }
```

In the above example, an instance of `Person` is guaranteed to have a
`name`, and might optionally have a `nickName`

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Interfaces

An *interface* is a TypeScript artifact, it is not part of ECMAScript.
An *interface* is a way to define a *contract* on a function with
respect to the arguments and their type. Along with functions, an
*interface* can also be used with a Class as well to define custom
types.

An interface is an abstract type, it does not contain any code as a
*class* does. It only defines the 'signature' or shape of an API. During
transpilation, an `interface` will not generate any code, it is only
used by Typescript for type checking during development.

Here is an example of an interface describing a function API:

```javascript
    interface Callback {
      (error: Error, data: any): void;
    }
    
    function callServer(callback: Callback) {
      callback(null, 'hi');
    }
    
    callServer((error, data) => console.log(data));  // 'hi'
    callServer('hi');                                // tsc error
```

Sometimes JavaScript functions can accept multiple types as well as
varying arguments, that is, they can have different call signatures.
Interfaces can be used to specify this.

```javascript
    interface PrintOutput {
      (message: string): void;    // common case
      (message: string[]): void;  // less common case
    }
    
    let printOut: PrintOutput = (message) => {
      if (Array.isArray(message)) {
        console.log(message.join(', '));
      } else {
        console.log(message);
      }
    }
    
    printOut('hello');       // 'hello'
    printOut(['hi', 'bye']); // 'hi, bye'
```

Here is an example of an interface describing an object literal:

```javascript
    interface Action {
      type: string;
    }
    
    let a: Action = {
        type: 'literal'
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Shapes

Underneath TypeScript is JavaScript, and underneath JavaScript is
typically a JIT (Just-In-Time compiler). Given JavaScript's underlying
semantics, types are typically reasoned about by "shapes". These
underlying shapes work like TypeScript's interfaces, and are in fact how
TypeScript compares custom types like `class`es and `interface`s.

Consider an expansion of the previous example:

```javascript
    interface Action {
      type: string;
    }
    
    let a: Action = {
        type: 'literal' 
    }
    
    class NotAnAction {
      type: string;
      constructor() {
        this.type = 'Constructor function (class)';
      }
    }
    
    a = new NotAnAction(); // valid TypeScript!
```

Despite the fact that `Action` and `NotAnAction` have different
identifiers, `tsc` lets us assign an instance of `NotAnAction` to `a`
which has a type of `Action`. This is because TypeScript only really
cares that objects have the same shape. In other words if two objects
have the same attributes, with the same typings, those two objects are
considered to be of the same type.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Type Inference

One common misconception about TypeScript's types is that code needs to
explicitly describe types at every possible opportunity. Fortunately
this is not the case. TypeScript has a rich type inference system that
will "fill in the blanks" for the programmer. Consider the following:

*type-inference-finds-error.ts*

```javascript
    let numbers = [2, 3, 5, 7, 11];
    numbers = ['this will generate a type error'];
```

```javascript
    tsc ./type-inference-finds-error.ts 
    type-inference-finds-error.ts(2,1): error TS2322: Type 'string[]' is not assignable to type 'number[]'.
      Type 'string' is not assignable to type 'number'.
```

The code contains no extra type information. In fact, it's valid ES6.  
If `var` had been used, it would be valid ES5. Yet TypeScript is still
able to determine type information.

Type inference can also work through context, which is handy with
callbacks. Consider the following:

*type-inference-finds-error-2.ts*

```javascript
    interface FakeEvent {
      type: string;
    }
    
    interface FakeEventHandler {
      (e: FakeEvent): void; 
    }
    
    class FakeWindow {
      onMouseDown: FakeEventHandler
    }
    const fakeWindow = new FakeWindow();
    
    fakeWindow.onMouseDown = (a: number) => {
      // this will fail
    };
```

```javascript
    tsc ./type-inference-finds-error-2.ts 
    type-inference-finds-error-2.ts(14,1): error TS2322: Type '(a: number) => void' is not assignable to type 'FakeEventHandler'.
      Types of parameters 'a' and 'e' are incompatible.
        Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'FakeEvent'.
          Property 'type' is missing in type 'Number'.
```

In this example the context is not obvious since the interfaces have
been defined explicitly. In a browser environment with a real `window`
object, this would be a handy feature, especially the type completion of
the `Event` object.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Type Keyword

The `type` keyword defines an alias to a type.

```javascript
    type str = string;
    let cheese: str = 'gorgonzola';
    let cake: str = 10; // Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'string'
```

At first glance, this does not appear to be very useful (even the error
mentions the original type), but as type annotations become more
complex, the benefits of the `type` keyword become apparent.

### Union Types

Union types allow type annotations to specify that a property should be
one of a set of types (either/or).

```javascript
    function admitAge (age: number|string): string {
      return `I am ${age}, alright?!`;
    }
    
    admitAge(30); // 'I am 30, alright?!'
    admitAge('Forty'); // 'I am Forty, alright?!'
```

The `type` keyword simplifies annotating and reusing union types.

```javascript
    type Age = number | string;
    
    function admitAge (age: Age): string {
      return `I am ${age}, alright?!`;
    }
    
    let myAge: Age = 50;
    let yourAge: Age = 'One Hundred';
    admitAge(yourAge); // 'I am One Hundred, alright?!'
```

A union type of string literal types is a very useful pattern, creating
what is basically an enum with string
    values.

```javascript
    type PartyZone = "pizza hut" | "waterpark" | "bowling alley" | "abandoned warehouse";
    
    function goToParty (place: PartyZone): string {
      return `lets go to the ${place}`;
    }
    
    goToParty("pizza hut");
    goToParty("chuck e. cheese"); // Argument of type `"chuck e. cheese"' is not assignable to parameter of type 'PartyZone'
```

### Intersection Types

Intersection types are the combination of two or more types. Useful for
objects and params that need to implement more than one interface.

```javascript
    interface Kicker {
      kick(speed: number): number;
    }
    
    interface Puncher {
      punch(power: number): number;
    }
    // assign intersection type definition to alias KickPuncher
    type KickPuncher = Kicker & Puncher;
    
    function attack (warrior: KickPuncher) {
      warrior.kick(102);
      warrior.punch(412);
      warrior.judoChop(); // Property 'judoChop' does not exist on type 'KickPuncher'
    }
```

### Function Type Definitions

Function type annotations can get much more specific than typescripts
built-in `Function` type. Function type definitions allow you to attach
a function signature to it's own type.

```javascript
    type MaybeError = Error | null;
    type Callback = (err: MaybeError, response: Object) => void;
    
    function sendRequest (cb: Callback): void {
      if (cb) {
        cb(null, {});
      }
    }
```

The syntax is similar to ES6 fat-arrow functions. `([params]) => [return
type]`.

To illustrate the how much the `type` keyword improved the readability
of the previous snippet, here is the function type defined
    inline.

```javascript
    function sendRequest (cb: (err: Error|null, response: Object) => void): void {
      if (cb) {
        cb(null, {});
      }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Decorators

Decorators are proposed for a future version of JavaScript, but the
Angular team *really* wanted to use them, and they have been included in
TypeScript.

Decorators are functions that are invoked with a prefixed `@` symbol,
and *immediately* followed by a `class`, parameter, method or property.
The decorator function is supplied information about the `class`,
parameter or method, and the decorator function returns something in its
place, or manipulates its target in some way. Typically the "something"
a decorator returns is the same thing that was passed in, but it has
been augmented in some way.

Decorators are quite new in TypeScript, and most use cases demonstrate
the use of existing decorators. However, decorators are just functions,
and are easier to reason about after walking through a few examples.

Decorators are functions, and there are four things (`class`, parameter,
method and property) that can be decorated; consequently there are four
different function signatures for decorators:

  - class: `declare type ClassDecorator = <TFunction extends
    Function>(target: TFunction) => TFunction | void;`
  - property: `declare type PropertyDecorator = (target: Object,
    propertyKey: string | symbol) => void;`
  - method: `declare type MethodDecorator = <T>(target: Object,
    propertyKey: string | symbol, descriptor:
    TypedPropertyDescriptor<T>) => TypedPropertyDescriptor<T> | void;`
  - parameter: `declare type ParameterDecorator = (target: Object,
    propertyKey: string | symbol, parameterIndex: number) => void;`

Readers who have played with Angular will notice that these signatures
do not look like the signatures used by Angular specific decorators like
`@Component()`.

Notice the `()` on `@Component`. This means that the `@Component` is
called once JavaScript encounters `@Component()`. In turn, this means
that there must be a `Component` function somewhere that returns a
function matching one of the decorator signatures outlined above. This
is an example of the decorator factory pattern.

If decorators still look confusing, perhaps some examples will clear
things up.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Property Decorators

Property decorators work with properties of classes.

```javascript
    function Override(label: string) {
      return function (target: any, key: string) {
        Object.defineProperty(target, key, { 
          configurable: false,
          get: () => label
        });
      }
    }
    
    class Test {
      @Override('test')      // invokes Override, which returns the decorator
      name: string = 'pat';
    }
    
    let t = new Test();
    console.log(t.name);  // 'test'
```

The above example must be compiled with both the
`--experimentalDecorators` and `--emitDecoratorMetadata` flags.

In this case the decorated property is replaced by the `label` passed to
the decorator. It's important to note that property values cannot be
directly manipulated by the decorator; instead an accessor is used.

Here's a classic property example that uses a *plain decorator*

```javascript
    function ReadOnly(target: any, key: string) {
      Object.defineProperty(target, key, { writable: false });
    }
    
    class Test {
      @ReadOnly             // notice there are no `()`
      name: string;
    }
    
    const t = new Test();
    t.name = 'jan';         
    console.log(t.name); // 'undefined'
```

In this case the name property is not `writable`, and remains undefined.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Class Decorators

```javascript
    function log(prefix?: string) {
      return (target) => {
        // save a reference to the original constructor
        var original = target;
    
        // a utility function to generate instances of a class
        function construct(constructor, args) {
          var c: any = function () {
            return constructor.apply(this, args);
          }
          c.prototype = constructor.prototype;
          return new c();
        }
    
        // the new constructor behavior
        var f: any = function (...args) {
          console.log(prefix + original.name);
          return construct(original, args);
        }
    
        // copy prototype so instanceof operator still works
        f.prototype = original.prototype;
    
        // return new constructor (will override original)
        return f;
      };
    }
    
    @log('hello')
    class World {
    }
    
    const w = new World(); // outputs "helloWorld"
```

In the example `log` is invoked using `@`, and passed a string as a
parameter, `@log()` returns an anonymous function that is the actual
decorator.

The decorator function takes a `class`, or constructor function (ES5) as
an argument. The decorator function then returns a new class
construction function that is used whenever `World` is instantiated.

This decorator does nothing other than log out its given parameter, and
its `target`'s class name to the console.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Parameter Decorators

```javascript
    function logPosition(target: any, propertyKey: string, parameterIndex: number) {
      console.log(parameterIndex);
    }
    
    class Cow {
      say(b: string, @logPosition c: boolean) {
        console.log(b);
      }
    }
    
    new Cow().say('hello', false); // outputs 1 (newline) hello
```

The above demonstrates decorating method parameters. Readers familiar
with Angular can now imagine how Angular implemented their `@Inject()`
system.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Source Control: [Git](http://git-scm.com/)

A source control, sometimes called a version control brings change
management to saving files at different points in the development
process. A **Version control system (VCS)** that will we make use of is
*Git*.

Git is a decentralized distributed versioning system, it allows
programmers to collaborate on the same codebase without stepping on each
other's toes. It has become the de-facto source control system for open
source development because of its decentralized model and cheap
branching features.

For more information on how to use Git, head over to [Pro
Git](https://www.gitbook.com/book/gitbookio/progit/details)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# The Command Line

JavaScript development tools are very command line oriented. If you come
from a Windows background you may find this unfamiliar. However the
command line provides better support for automating development tasks,
so it's worth getting comfortable with it.

We will provide examples for all command line activities required by
this course.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Command Line JavaScript: [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org)

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime environment that allows JavaScript code
to run outside of a browser using Google V8 JavaScript engine. Node.js
is used for writting fast executing code on the server to handle events
and non-blocking I/O efficently.

  - REPL (Read-Eval-Print-Loop) to quickly write and test JavaScript
    code.
  - The V8 JavaScript interpreter.
  - Modules for doing OS tasks like file I/O, HTTP, etc.

While Node.js was initially intended for writing server code in
JavaScript, today it is widely used by JavaScript tools, which makes it
relevant to front-end programmers too. A lot of the tools you'll be
using in this course leverage Node.js.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Back-End Code Sharing and Distribution: [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

`npm` is the "node package manager". It installs with NodeJS, and gives
you access to a wide variety of 3rd-party JavaScript modules.

It also performs dependency management for your back-end application.
You specify module dependencies in a file called `package.json`; running
`npm install` will resolve, download and install your back-end
application's dependencies.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Module Loading, Bundling and Build Tasks: [Webpack](http://webpack.github.io/docs/what-is-webpack.html)

Webpack is a JavaScript module bundler. It takes modules with their
dependencies and generates static assets representing those modules.
Webpack known only how to bundle JavaScript. To bundle other assets
likes CSS, HTML, images or just about anything it uses additional
loaders. Webpack can also be extended via plugins, for example
minification and mangling can be done using the UglifyJS plugin for
webpack.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Web Browsers

We use Google's Chrome browser for this course because of its
cutting-edge JavaScript engine and excellent debugging tools.

However you are free to use other browsers. Not well known, there is a
Mozilla Firefox [Developer
Edition](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/developer/) available
with support for great development and debugging tools. Code written
with JavaScript should work on any modern web browser (Firefox, IE9+,
Chrome, Safari, Opera).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Understanding the File Structure

To get started let's create a bare-bones Angular application with a
single component. To do this we need the following files:

  - *app/app.component.ts* - this is where we define our root component
  - *app/app.module.ts* - the entry Angular Module to be bootstrapped
  - *index.html* - this is the page the component will be rendered in
  - *app/main.ts* - is the glue that combines the component and page
    together

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core'
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: '<b>Bootstrapping an Angular Application</b>'
    })
    export class AppComponent { }
```

*index.html*

```javascript
    <body>
        <app-root>Loading...</app-root>
    </body>
```

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { BrowserModule }  from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component'
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [BrowserModule],
      declarations: [AppComponent],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    }
```

*app/main.ts*

```javascript
    import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';
    import { AppModule } from './app.module';
    
    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);
```

If you're making use of Ahead-of-Time (AoT) compilation, you would code
`main.ts` as follows.

```javascript
    import { platformBrowser} from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { AppModuleNgFactory } from '../aot/app/app.module.ngfactory';
    
    platformBrowser().bootstrapModuleFactory(AppModuleNgFactory);
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-002-understanding-file-structure)

The bootstrap process loads *main.ts* which is the main entry point of
the application. The `AppModule` operates as the root module of our
application. The module is configured to use `AppComponent` as the
component to bootstrap, and will be rendered on any `app-root` HTML
element encountered.

There is an `app` HTML element in the *index.html* file, and we use
*app/main.ts* to import the `AppModule` component and the
`platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule` function and kickstart the
process. As shown above, you may optionally use **AoT** in which case
you will be working with Factories, in the example, `AppModuleNgFactory`
and `bootstrapModuleFactory`.

Why does Angular bootstrap itself in this way? Well there is actually a
very good reason. Since Angular is not a web-only based framework, we
can write components that will run in NativeScript, or Cordova, or any
other environment that can host Angular applications.

The magic is then in our bootstrapping process - we can import which
platform we would like to use, depending on the environment we're
operating under. In our example, since we were running our Angular
application in the browser, we used the bootstrapping process found in
`@angular/platform-browser-dynamic`.

It's also a good idea to leave the bootstrapping process in its own
separate *main.ts* file. This makes it easier to test (since the
components are isolated from the `bootstrap` call), easier to reuse and
gives better organization and structure to our application.

There is more to understanding Angular Modules and `@NgModule` which
will be covered later, but for now this is enough to get started.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Bootstrapping Providers

The bootstrap process also starts the dependency injection system in
Angular. We won't go over Angular's dependency injection system here -
that is covered later. Instead let's take a look at an example of how to
bootstrap your application with application-wide providers.

For this, we will register a service called `GreeterService` with the
`providers` property of the module we are using to bootstrap the
application.

*_app/app.module.ts_*

```javascript
    import { BrowserModule }  from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { NgModule } '@angular/core';
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component'
    import { GreeterService } from './greeter.service';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [BrowserModule],
      providers: [GreeterService],
      declarations: [AppComponent],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-003-bootstrapping-providers)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating Components

Components in Angular 2 build upon the lessons learned from Angular 1.5.
We define a component's application logic inside a class. To this we
attach `@Component`, a TypeScript `decorator`, which allows you to
modify a class or function definition and adds metadata to properties
and function arguments.

  - *selector* is the element property that we use to tell Angular to
    create and insert an instance of this component.
  - *template* is a form of HTML that tells Angular what needs to be to
    rendered in the DOM.

The Component below will interpolate the value of `name` variable into
the template between the double braces `{{name}}`, what get rendered in
the view is `<p>Hello World</p>`.

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'rio-hello',
      template: '<p>Hello, {{name}}!</p>',
    })
    export class HelloComponent {
      name: string;
    
      constructor() {
        this.name = 'World';
      }
    }
```

We need to import the `Component` decorator from `@angular/core` before
we can make use of it. To use this component we simply add
`<rio-hello></rio-hello>` to the HTML file or another template, and
Angular will insert an instance of the `HelloComponent` view between
those tags.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-004-creating-components)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Application Structure with Components

A useful way of conceptualizing Angular application design is to look at
it as a tree of nested components, each having an isolated scope.

For example consider the following:

```javascript
    <rio-todo-app>
      <rio-todo-list>
        <rio-todo-item></rio-todo-item>
        <rio-todo-item></rio-todo-item>
        <rio-todo-item></rio-todo-item>
      </rio-todo-list>
      <rio-todo-form></rio-todo-form>
    </rio-todo-app>
```

At the root we have `rio-todo-app` which consists of a `rio-todo-list`
and a `rio-todo-form`. Within the list we have several `rio-todo-item`s.
Each of these components is visible to the user, who can interact with
these components and perform actions.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Passing Data into a Component

There are two ways to pass data into a component, with 'property
binding' and 'event binding'. In Angular, data and event change
detection happens top-down from parent to children. However for Angular
events we can use the DOM event mental model where events flow bottom-up
from child to parent. So, Angular events can be treated like regular
HTML DOM based events when it comes to cancellable event propagation.

The `@Input()` decorator defines a set of parameters that can be passed
down from the component's parent. For example, we can modify the
`HelloComponent` component so that `name` can be provided by the parent.

```javascript
    import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'rio-hello',
      template: '<p>Hello, {{name}}!</p>',
    })
    export class HelloComponent {
      @Input() public name: string;
    }
```

The point of making components is not only encapsulation, but also
reusability. Inputs allow us to configure a particular instance of a
component.

We can now use our component like so:

```javascript
    <!-- To bind to a raw string -->
    <rio-hello name="World"></rio-hello>
    <!-- To bind to a variable in the parent scope -->
    <rio-hello [name]="helloName"></rio-hello>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-005-passing-data-into-component)

> Unlike Angular 1.x, this is one-way binding.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Responding to Component Events

An event handler is specified inside the template using round brackets
to denote event binding. This event handler is then coded in the class
to process the event.

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'rio-counter',
      template: `
        <div>
          <p>Count: {{num}}</p>
          <button (click)="increment()">Increment</button>
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class CounterComponent {
      num = 0;
    
      increment() {
        this.num++;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-006-responding-to-component-events)

To send data out of components via outputs, start by defining the
outputs attribute. It accepts a list of output parameters that a
component exposes to its
    parent.

`app/counter.component.ts`

```javascript
    import { Component, EventEmitter, Input, Output } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'rio-counter',
      templateUrl: 'app/counter.component.html'
    })
    export class CounterComponent {
      @Input()  count = 0;
      @Output() result = new EventEmitter<number>();
    
      increment() {
        this.count++;
        this.result.emit(this.count);
      }
    }
```

`app/counter.component.html`

```javascript
    <div>
      <p>Count: {{ count }}</p>
      <button (click)="increment()">Increment</button>
    </div>
```

`app/app.component.ts`

```javascript
    import { Component, OnChange } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'rio-app',
      templateUrl: 'app/app.component.html'
    })
    export class AppComponent implements OnChange {
      num = 0;
      parentCount = 0;
    
      counter(val: number) {
        this.parentCount = val;
      }
    }
```

`app/app.component.html`

```javascript
    <div>
      Parent Num: {{ num }}<br>
      Parent Count: {{ parentCount }}
      <rio-counter [count]="num" (result)="counter($event)">
      </rio-counter>
    </div>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-007-responding-to-component-events-2)

Together a set of input + output bindings define the public API of your
component. In our templates we use the \[squareBrackets\] to pass inputs
and the (parenthesis) to handle outputs.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Two-Way Data Binding

Two-way data binding combines the input and output binding into a single
notation using the `ngModel` directive.

```javascript
    <input [(ngModel)]="name" >
```

What this is doing behind the scenes is equivalent to:

```javascript
    <input [ngModel]="name" (ngModelChange)="name=$event">
```

To create your own component that supports two-way binding, you must
define an `@Output` property to match an `@Input`, but suffix it with
the `Change`. The code example below, inside class CounterComponent
shows how to make property count support two-way
    binding.

`app/counter.component.ts`

```javascript
    import { Component, Input, Output, EventEmitter } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'rio-counter',
      templateUrl: 'app/counter.component.html'
    })
    export class CounterComponent {
      @Input() count = 0;
      @Output() countChange = EventEmitter<number>();
    
      increment() {
        this.count++;
        this.countChange.emit(this.count);
      }
    }
```

`app/counter.component.html`

```javascript
    <div>
      <p>
        <ng-content></ng-content>
        Count: {{ count }} -
        <button (click)="increment()">Increment</button>
      </p>
    </div>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-008-two-way-data-binding)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Access Child Components From the Template

As the complexity and size of our application grows, we want to divide
responsibilities among our components further.

  - *Smart / Container components* are application-specific,
    higher-level, container components, with access to the application's
    domain model.

  - *Dumb / Presentational components* are components responsible for UI
    rendering and/or behavior of specific entities passed in via
    components API (i.e component properties and events). Those
    components are more in-line with the upcoming Web Component
    standards.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Structuring Applications with Components

As the complexity and size of our application grows, we want to divide
responsibilities among our components further.

  - *Smart / Container components* are application-specific,
    higher-level, container components, with access to the application's
    domain model.

  - *Dumb / Presentational components* are components responsible for UI
    rendering and/or behavior of specific entities passed in via
    components API (i.e component properties and events). Those
    components are more in-line with the upcoming Web Component
    standards.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Other Components

Components depend on other components, directives and pipes. For
example, `TodoListComponent` relies on `TodoItemComponent`. To let a
component know about these dependencies we group them into a module.

```javascript
    import {NgModule} from '@angular/core';
    
    import {TodoListComponent} from './components/todo-list.component';
    import {TodoItemComponent} from './components/todo-item.component';
    import {TodoInputComponent} from './components/todo-input.component';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [ ... ],
      declarations: [
        TodoListComponent,
        TodoItemComponent,
        TodoInputComponent
      ],
      bootstrap: [ ... ]
    })
    export class ToDoAppModule {
    }
```

The property `declarations` expects an array of components, directives
and pipes that are part of the module.

Please see the [Modules section](../modules/) for more info about
`NgModule`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Attribute Directives

Attribute directives are a way of changing the appearance or behavior of
a component or a native DOM element. Ideally, a directive should work in
a way that is component agnostic and not bound to implementation
details.

For example, Angular has built-in attribute directives such as `ngClass`
and `ngStyle` that work on any component or element.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# NgStyle Directive

Angular provides a built-in directive, `ngStyle`, to modify a component
or element's `style` attribute. Here's an example:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-style-example',
      template: `
        <p style="padding: 1rem"
          [ngStyle]="{
            'color': 'red',
            'font-weight': 'bold',
            'borderBottom': borderStyle
          }">
          <ng-content></ng-content>
        </p>
      `
    })
    export class StyleExampleComponent {
      borderStyle = '1px solid black';
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-009-ngstyle-directive)

Notice that binding a directive works the exact same way as component
attribute bindings. Here, we're binding an expression, an object
literal, to the `ngStyle` directive so the directive name must be
enclosed in square brackets. `ngStyle` accepts an object whose
properties and values define that element's style. In this case, we can
see that both kebab case and lower camel case can be used when
specifying a style property. Also notice that both the html `style`
attribute and Angular `ngStyle` directive are combined when styling the
element.

We can remove the style properties out of the template into the
component as a property object, which then gets assigned to `NgStyle`
using property binding. This allows dynamic changes to the values as
well as provides the flexibility to add and remove style properties.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-style-example',
      template: `
        <p style="padding: 1rem"
          [ngStyle]="alertStyles">
          <ng-content></ng-content>
        </p>
      `
    })
    export class StyleExampleComponent {
      borderStyle = '1px solid black';
    
      alertStyles = {
        'color': 'red',
        'font-weight': 'bold',
        'borderBottom': this.borderStyle
      };
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# NgClass Directive

The `ngClass` directive changes the `class` attribute that is bound to
the component or element it's attached to. There are a few different
ways of using the directive.

## Binding a string

We can bind a string directly to the attribute. This works just like
adding an html `class` attribute.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-class-as-string',
      template: `
        <p ngClass="centered-text underlined" class="orange">
          <ng-content></ng-content>
        </p>
      `,
      styles: [`
        .centered-text {
          text-align: center;
        }
    
        .underlined {
          border-bottom: 1px solid #ccc;
        }
    
        .orange {
          color: orange;
        }
      `]
    })
    export class ClassAsStringComponent {
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-010-ngclass-directive)

In this case, we're binding a string directly so we avoid wrapping the
directive in square brackets. Also notice that the `ngClass` works with
the `class` attribute to combine the final classes.

## Binding an array

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-class-as-array',
      template: `
        <p [ngClass]="['warning', 'big']">
          <ng-content></ng-content>
        </p>
      `,
      styles: [`
        .warning {
          color: red;
          font-weight: bold;
        }
    
        .big {
          font-size: 1.2rem;
        }
      `]
    })
    export class ClassAsArrayComponent {
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-010-ngclass-directive)

Here, since we are binding to the `ngClass` directive by using an
expression, we need to wrap the directive name in square brackets.
Passing in an array is useful when you want to have a function put
together the list of applicable class names.

## Binding an object

Lastly, an object can be bound to the directive. Angular applies each
property name of that object to the component if that property is true.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-class-as-object',
      template: `
        <p [ngClass]="{ card: true, dark: false, flat: flat }">
          <ng-content></ng-content>
          <br>
          <button type="button" (click)="flat=!flat">Toggle Flat</button>
        </p>
      `,
      styles: [`
        .card {
          border: 1px solid #eee;
          padding: 1rem;
          margin: 0.4rem;
          font-family: sans-serif;
          box-shadow: 2px 2px 2px #888888;
        }
    
        .dark {
          background-color: #444;
          border-color: #000;
          color: #fff;
        }
    
        .flat {
          box-shadow: none;
        }
      `]
    })
    export class ClassAsObjectComponent {
      flat: boolean = true;
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-010-ngclass-directive)

Here we can see that since the object's `card` and `flat` properties are
true, those classes are applied but since `dark` is false, it's not
applied.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Structural Directives

Structural Directives are a way of handling how a component or element
renders through the use of the `template` tag. This allows us to run
some code that decides what the final rendered output will be. Angular
has a few built-in structural directives such as `ngIf`, `ngFor`, and
`ngSwitch`.

*Note: For those who are unfamiliar with the `template` tag, it is an
HTML element with a few special properties. Content nested in a template
tag is not rendered on page load and is something that is meant to be
loaded through code at runtime. For more information on the `template`
tag, visit the [MDN
documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/HTML/Element/template)*.

Structural directives have their own special syntax in the template that
works as syntactic sugar.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-directive-example',
      template: `
        <p *structuralDirective="expression">
          Under a structural directive.
        </p>
      `
    })
```

Instead of being enclosed by square brackets, our dummy structural
directive is prefixed with an asterisk. Notice that the binding is still
an expression binding even though there are no square brackets. That's
due to the fact that it's syntactic sugar that allows using the
directive in a more intuitive way and similar to how directives were
used in Angular 1. The component template above is equivalent to the
following:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-directive-example',
      template: `
        <template [structuralDirective]="expression">
          <p>
            Under a structural directive.
          </p>
        </template>
      `
    })
```

Here, we see what was mentioned earlier when we said that structural
directives use the `template` tag. Angular also has a built-in
`template` directive that does the same thing:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-directive-example',
      template: `
        <p template="structuralDirective expression">
          Under a structural directive.
        </p>
      `
    })
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# NgIf Directive

The `ngIf` directive conditionally adds or removes content from the DOM
based on whether or not an expression is true or false.

Here's our app component, where we bind the `ngIf` directive to an
example component.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <button type="button" (click)="toggleExists()">Toggle Component</button>
        <hr>
        <div *ngIf="exists">
          Hello
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      exists = true;
    
      toggleExists() {
        this.exists = !this.exists;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-013-ngif-directive)

Clicking the button will toggle whether or not `IfExampleComponent` is a
part of the DOM and not just whether it is visible or not. This means
that every time the button is clicked, `IfExampleComponent` will be
created or destroyed. This can be an issue with components that have
expensive create/destroy actions. For example, a component could have a
large child subtree or make several HTTP calls when constructed. In
these cases it may be better to avoid using `ngIf` if possible.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# NgFor Directive

The `NgFor` directive is a way of repeating a template by using each
item of an iterable as that template's context.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div *ngFor="let episode of episodes">
          {{episode.title}}
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      episodes = [
        { title: 'Winter Is Coming', director: 'Tim Van Patten' },
        { title: 'The Kingsroad', director: 'Tim Van Patten' },
        { title: 'Lord Snow', director: 'Brian Kirk' },
        { title: 'Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things', director: 'Brian Kirk' },
        { title: 'The Wolf and the Lion', director: 'Brian Kirk' },
        { title: 'A Golden Crown', director: 'Daniel Minahan' },
        { title: 'You Win or You Die', director: 'Daniel Minahan' },
        { title: 'The Pointy End', director: 'Daniel Minahan' }
      ];
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-014-ngfor-directive)

The `NgFor` directive has a different syntax from other directives we've
seen. If you're familiar with the [for...of
statement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for...of),
you'll notice that they're almost identical. `NgFor` lets you specify an
iterable object to iterate over and the name to refer to each item by
inside the scope. In our example, you can see that `episode` is
available for interpolation as well as property binding. The directive
does some extra parsing so that when this is expanded to template form,
it looks a bit different:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app',
      template: `
        <ng-template ngFor [ngForOf]="episodes" let-episode>
          <div>
            {{episode.title}}
          </div>
        </ng-template>
      `
    })
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-014-ngfor-directive)

Notice that there is an odd `let-episode` property on the template
element. The `NgFor` directive provides some variables as context within
its scope. `let-episode` is a context binding and here it takes on the
value of each item of the iterable.

## Local Variables

`NgFor` also provides other values that can be aliased to local
variables:

  - *index* - position of the current item in the iterable starting at
    `0`
  - *first* - `true` if the current item is the first item in the
    iterable
  - *last* - `true` if the current item is the last item in the iterable
  - *even* - `true` if the current index is an even number
  - *odd* - `true` if the current index is an odd number

<!-- end list -->

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div
          *ngFor="let episode of episodes; let i = index; let isOdd = odd"
          [episode]="episode"
          [ngClass]="{ odd: isOdd }">
          {{i+1}}. {{episode.title}}
        </div>
    
        <hr>
    
        <h2>Desugared</h2>
    
        <ngFor [ngForOf]="episodes" let-episode let-i="index" let-isOdd="odd">
          <for-example [episode]="episode" [ngClass]="{ odd: isOdd }">
            {{i+1}}. {{episode.title}}
          </for-example>
        </template>
      `
    })
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-016-ngfor-local-variables)

## trackBy

Often `NgFor` is used to iterate through a list of objects with a unique
ID field. In this case, we can provide a `trackBy` function which helps
Angular keep track of items in the list so that it can detect which
items have been added or removed and improve performance.

Angular will try and track objects by reference to determine which items
should be created and destroyed. However, if you replace the list with a
new source of objects, perhaps as a result of an API request - we can
get some extra performance by telling Angular how we want to keep track
of things.

For example, if the `Add Episode` button was to make a request and
return a new list of episodes, we might not want to destroy and
re-create every item in the list. If the episodes have a unique ID, we
could add a `trackBy` function:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
      <button
        (click)="addOtherEpisode()"
        [disabled]="otherEpisodes.length === 0">
        Add Episode
      </button>
      <app-for-example
        *ngFor="let episode of episodes;
        let i = index; let isOdd = odd;
        trackBy: trackById" [episode]="episode"
        [ngClass]="{ odd: isOdd }">
        {{episode.title}}
      </app-for-example>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
    
      otherEpisodes = [
        { title: 'Two Swords', director: 'D. B. Weiss', id: 8 },
        { title: 'The Lion and the Rose', director: 'Alex Graves', id: 9 },
        { title: 'Breaker of Chains', director: 'Michelle MacLaren', id: 10 },
        { title: 'Oathkeeper', director: 'Michelle MacLaren', id: 11 }]
    
      episodes = [
        { title: 'Winter Is Coming', director: 'Tim Van Patten', id: 0 },
        { title: 'The Kingsroad', director: 'Tim Van Patten', id: 1 },
        { title: 'Lord Snow', director: 'Brian Kirk', id: 2 },
        { title: 'Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things', director: 'Brian Kirk', id: 3 },
        { title: 'The Wolf and the Lion', director: 'Brian Kirk', id: 4 },
        { title: 'A Golden Crown', director: 'Daniel Minahan', id: 5 },
        { title: 'You Win or You Die', director: 'Daniel Minahan', id: 6 }
        { title: 'The Pointy End', director: 'Daniel Minahan', id: 7 }
      ];
    
      addOtherEpisode() {
        // We want to create a new object reference for sake of example
        let episodesCopy = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(this.episodes))
        this.episodes=[...episodesCopy,this.otherEpisodes.pop()];
      }
      trackById(index: number, episode: any): number {
        return episode.id;
      }
    }
```

To see how this can affect the `ForExample` component, let's add some
logging to it.

```javascript
    export class ForExampleComponent {
      @Input() episode;
    
      ngOnInit() {
        console.log('component created', this.episode)
      }
      ngOnDestroy() {
        console.log('destroying component', this.episode)
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-017-ngfor-trackby)

When we view the example, as we click on `Add Episode`, we can see
console output indicating that only one component was created - for the
newly added item to the list.

However, if we were to remove the `trackBy` from the `*ngFor` - every
time we click the button, we would see the items in the component
getting destroyed and recreated.

[View Example Without trackBy](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-018-ngfor-without-trackby)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# NgSwitch Directives

`ngSwitch` is actually comprised of two directives, an attribute
directive and a structural directive. It's very similar to a [switch
statement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/switch)
in JavaScript and other programming languages, but in the template.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div class="tabs-selection">
          <app-tab [active]="isSelected(1)" (click)="setTab(1)">Tab 1</app-tab>
          <app-tab [active]="isSelected(2)" (click)="setTab(2)">Tab 2</app-tab>
          <app-tab [active]="isSelected(3)" (click)="setTab(3)">Tab 3</app-tab>
        </div>
    
        <div [ngSwitch]="tab">
          <app-tab-content *ngSwitchCase="1">Tab content 1</app-tab-content>
          <app-tab-content *ngSwitchCase="2">Tab content 2</app-tab-content>
          <app-tab-content *ngSwitchCase="3"><app-tab-3></app-tab-3></app-tab-content>
          <app-tab-content *ngSwitchDefault>Select a tab</app-tab-content>
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      tab: number = 0;
    
      setTab(num: number) {
        this.tab = num;
      }
    
      isSelected(num: number) {
        return this.tab === num;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-019-ngswitch)

Here we see the `ngSwitch` attribute directive being attached to an
element. This expression bound to the directive defines what will
compared against in the switch structural directives. If an expression
bound to `ngSwitchCase` matches the one given to `ngSwitch`, those
components are created and the others destroyed. If none of the cases
match, then components that have `ngSwitchDefault` bound to them will be
created and the others destroyed. Note that multiple components can be
matched using `ngSwitchCase` and in those cases all matching components
will be created. Since components are created or destroyed be aware of
the costs in doing so.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Multiple Structural Directives

Sometimes we'll want to combine multiple structural directives together,
like iterating using `ngFor` but wanting to do an `ngIf` to make sure
that the value matches some or multiple conditions. Combining structural
directives can lead to unexpected results however, so Angular requires
that a template can only be bound to one directive at a time. To apply
multiple directives we'll have to expand the sugared syntax or nest
template tags.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <template ngFor [ngForOf]="[1,2,3,4,5,6]" let-item>
          <div *ngIf="item > 3">
            {{item}}
          </div>
        </template>
      `
    })
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-020-multiple-structural-directives)

The previous tabs example can use `ngFor` and `ngSwitch` if the tab
title and content is abstracted away into the component class.

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div class="tabs-selection">
          <tab
            *ngFor="let tab of tabs; let i = index"
            [active]="isSelected(i)"
            (click)="setTab(i)">
    
            {{ tab.title }}
          </tab>
        </div>
    
        <div [ngSwitch]="tabNumber">
          <template ngFor [ngForOf]="tabs" let-tab let-i="index">
            <tab-content *ngSwitchCase="i">
              {{tab.content}}
            </tab-content>
          </template>
          <tab-content *ngSwitchDefault>Select a tab</tab-content>
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      tabNumber: number = -1;
    
      tabs = [
        { title: 'Tab 1', content: 'Tab content 1' },
        { title: 'Tab 2', content: 'Tab content 2' },
        { title: 'Tab 3', content: 'Tab content 3' },
      ];
    
      setTab(num: number) {
        this.tabNumber = num;
      }
    
      isSelected(num: number) {
        return this.tabNumber === i;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-021-multiple-structural-directives-2)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Component Lifecycle

A component has a lifecycle managed by Angular itself. Angular manages
creation, rendering, data-bound properties etc. It also offers hooks
that allow us to respond to key lifecycle events.

Here is the complete lifecycle hook interface inventory:

  - `ngOnChanges` - called when an input binding value changes
  - `ngOnInit` - after the first `ngOnChanges`
  - `ngDoCheck` - after every run of change detection
  - `ngAfterContentInit` - after component content initialized
  - `ngAfterContentChecked` - after every check of component content
  - `ngAfterViewInit` - after component's view(s) are initialized
  - `ngAfterViewChecked` - after every check of a component's view(s)
  - `ngOnDestroy` - just before the component is destroyed

📄 from [Component
Lifecycle](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/lifecycle-hooks.html)

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-022-component-lifecycle)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Accessing Child Component Classes

## @ViewChild and @ViewChildren

The @ViewChild and @ViewChildren decorators provide access to the class
of child component from the containing component.

The `@ViewChild` is a decorator function that takes the name of a
component class as its input and finds its selector in the template of
the containing component to bind to. `@ViewChild` can also be passed a
template reference variable.

For example, we bind the class `AlertComponent` to its selector
`<app-alert>` and assign it to the property `alert`. This allows us to
gain access to class methods, like `show()`.

```javascript
    import { Component, ViewChild } from '@angular/core';
    import { AlertComponent } from './alert.component';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: `
        <app-alert>My alert</app-alert>
          <button (click)="showAlert()">Show Alert</button>`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      @ViewChild(AlertComponent) alert: AlertComponent;
    
      showAlert() {
        this.alert.show();
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-023-accessing-child-component-1)

In the interest of separation of concerns, we'd normally want to have
child elements take care of their own behaviors and pass in an
`@Input()`. However, it might be a useful construct in keeping things
generic.

When there are multiple embedded components in the template, we can also
use `@ViewChildren`. It collects a list of instances of the Alert
component, stored in a QueryList object that behaves similar to an
array.

```javascript
    import { Component, QueryList, ViewChildren } from '@angular/core';
    import { AlertComponent } from './alert.component';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: `
        <app-alert ok="Next" (close)="showAlert(2)">
          Step 1: Learn angular
        </app-alert>
        <app-alert ok="Next" (close)="showAlert(3)">
          Step 2: Love angular
        </app-alert>
        <app-alert ok="Close">
          Step 3: Build app
        </app-alert>
          <button (click)="showAlert(1)">Show steps</button>`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      @ViewChildren(AlertComponent) alerts: QueryList<AlertComponent>;
      alertsArr = [];
    
      ngAfterViewInit() {
        this.alertsArr = this.alerts.toArray();
      }
    
      showAlert(step) {
        this.alertsArr[step - 1].show(); // step 1 is alert index 0
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-024-accessing-child-component-2)

As shown above, given a class type to `@ViewChild` and `@ViewChildren` a
child component or a list of children component are selected
respectively using their selector from the template. In addition both
`@ViewChild` and `@ViewChildren` can be passed a selector string:

```javascript
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: `
        <app-alert #first ok="Next" (close)="showAlert(2)">
          Step 1: Learn angular
        </app-alert>
        <app-alert ok="Next" (close)="showAlert(3)">
          Step 2: Love angular
        </app-alert>
        <app-alert ok="Close">
          Step 3: Build app
        </app-alert>
          <button (click)="showAlert(1)">Show steps</button>`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      @ViewChild('first') alert: AlertComponent;
      @ViewChildren(AlertComponent) alerts: QueryList<AlertComponent>;
      // ...
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-025-accessing-child-component-3)

Note that view children will not be set until the `ngAfterViewInit`
lifecycle hook is called.

## @ContentChild and @ContentChildren

`@ContentChild` and `@ContentChildren` work the same way as the
equivalent `@ViewChild` and `@ViewChildren`, however, the key difference
is that `@ContentChild` and `@ContentChildren` select from the
[projected content](../components/projection.html) within the component.

Again, note that content children will not be set until the
`ngAfterContentInit` component lifecycle hook.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-026-contentchild)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# View Encapsulation

View encapsulation defines whether the template and styles defined
within the component can affect the whole application or vice versa.
Angular provides three encapsulation strategies:

  - `Emulated` (default) - styles from main HTML propagate to the
    component. Styles defined in this component's `@Component` decorator
    are scoped to this component only.

  - `Native` - styles from main HTML do not propagate to the component.
    Styles defined in this component's `@Component` decorator are scoped
    to this component only.

  - `None` - styles from the component propagate back to the main HTML
    and therefore are visible to all components on the page. Be careful
    with apps that have `None` and `Native` components in the
    application. All components with `None` encapsulation will have
    their styles duplicated in all components with `Native`
    encapsulation.
    
        @Component({
        // ...
        encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
        styles: [
          // ...
        ]
        })
        export class HelloComponent {
        // ...
        }

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-027-view-encapsulation)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# ElementRef

Provides access to the underlying native element (DOM
    element).

```javascript
    import { AfterContentInit, Component, ElementRef } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: `
        <h1>My App</h1>
        <pre>
          <code>{{ node }}</code>
        </pre>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent implements AfterContentInit {
      node: string;
    
      constructor(private elementRef: ElementRef) { }
    
      ngAfterContentInit() {
        const tmp = document.createElement('div');
        const el = this.elementRef.nativeElement.cloneNode(true);
    
        tmp.appendChild(el);
        this.node = tmp.innerHTML;
      }
    
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-028-elementref)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Observables

Let's take a look at a basic example of how to create and use an
`Observable` in an Angular component:

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    import {Observable} from 'rxjs';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app',
        template: `
          <b>Angular Component Using Observables!</b>
    
          <h6 style="margin-bottom: 0">VALUES:</h6>
          <div *ngFor="let value of values">- {{ value }}</div>
    
          <h6 style="margin-bottom: 0">ERRORs:</h6>
          <div>Errors: {{anyErrors}}</div>
    
          <h6 style="margin-bottom: 0">FINISHED:</h6>
          <div>Finished: {{ finished }}</div>
    
          <button style="margin-top: 2rem;" (click)="init()">Init</button>
        `
    })
    export class MyApp {
    
      private data: Observable<number>;
      private values: Array<number> = [];
      private anyErrors: boolean;
      private finished: boolean;
    
      constructor() {
      }
    
      init() {
          this.data = new Observable(observer => {
              setTimeout(() => {
                  observer.next(42);
              }, 1000);
    
              setTimeout(() => {
                  observer.next(43);
              }, 2000);
    
              setTimeout(() => {
                  observer.complete();
              }, 3000);
          });
    
          let subscription = this.data.subscribe(
              value => this.values.push(value),
              error => this.anyErrors = true,
              () => this.finished = true
          );
      }
    
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-029-using-observables)

First we import `Observable` into our component from `rxjs/Observable`.
Next, in our constructor we create a new `Observable`. Note that this
creates an `Observable` data type that contains data of `number` type.
This illustrates the stream of data that `Observables` offer as well as
giving us the ability to maintain integrity of the type of data we are
expecting to receive.

Next we call `subscribe` on this `Observable` which allows us to listen
in on any data that is coming through. In subscribing we use three
distinctive callbacks: the first one is invoked when receiving new
values, the second for any errors that arise and the last represents the
function to be invoked when the sequence of incoming data is complete
and successful.

We can also use `forEach` to listen for incoming data. The key
difference between `forEach` and `subscribe` is in how the error and
completion callbacks are handled. The `forEach` call only accepts the
'next value' callback as an argument; it then returns a promise instead
of a subscription.

When the `Observable` completes, the promise resolves. When the
`Observable` encounters an error, the promise is rejected.

You can think of `Observable.of(1, 2, 3).forEach(doSomething)` as being
semantically equivalent to:

```javascript
    new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
      Observable.of(1, 2, 3).subscribe(
        doSomething,
        reject,
        resolve);
    });
```

The `forEach` pattern is useful for a sequence of events you only expect
to happen once.

```javascript
    export class MyApp {
    
      private data: Observable<number>;
      private values: Array<number> = [];
      private anyErrors: boolean;
      private finished: boolean;
    
      constructor() {
      }
    
      init() {
          this.data = new Observable(observer => {
              setTimeout(() => {
                  observer.next(42);
              }, 1000);
    
              setTimeout(() => {
                  observer.next(43);
              }, 2000);
    
              setTimeout(() => {
                  observer.complete();
              }, 3000);
    
              this.status = "Started";
          });
    
          let subscription = this.data.forEach(v => this.values.push(v))
                .then(() => this.status = "Ended");
      }
    
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-030-using-observables-2)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Error Handling

If something unexpected arises we can raise an error on the `Observable`
stream and use the function reserved for handling errors in our
`subscribe` routine to see what happened.

```javascript
    export class App {
    
        values: number[] = [];
        anyErrors: Error;
        private data: Observable<number[]>;
    
        constructor() {
    
            this.data = new Observable(observer => {
                  setTimeout(() => {
                    observer.next(10);
                }, 1500);
                setTimeout(() => {
                    observer.error(new Error('Something bad happened!'));
                }, 2000);
                setTimeout(() => {
                    observer.next(50);
                }, 2500);
            });
    
            let subscription = this.data.subscribe(
                value => this.values.push(value),
                error => this.anyErrors = error
            );
        }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-031-error-handling)

Here an error is raised and caught. One thing to note is that if we
included a `.complete()` after we raised the error, this event will not
actually fire. Therefore you should remember to include some call in
your error handler that will turn off any visual loading states in your
application.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Disposing Subscriptions and Releasing Resources

In some scenarios we may want to unsubscribe from an `Observable`
stream. Doing this is pretty straightforward as the `.subscribe()` call
returns a data type that we can call `.unsubscribe()` on.

```javascript
    export class MyApp {
    
      private data: Observable<Array<string>>;
      private value: string;
      private subscribed: boolean;
      private status: string;
    
        init() {
    
            this.data = new Observable(observer => {
                let timeoutId = setTimeout(() => {
                    observer.next('You will never see this message');
                }, 2000);
    
                this.status = 'Started';
    
                return onUnsubscribe = () => {
                    this.subscribed = false;
                    this.status = 'Finished';
                    clearTimeout(timeoutId);
                }
            });
    
            let subscription = this.data.subscribe(
                value => this.value = value,
                error => console.log(error),
                () => this.status = 'Finished';
            );
            this.subscribed = true;
    
            setTimeout(() => {
              subscription.unsubscribe();
            }, 1000);
        }
    
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-032-disposing-subscriptions)

Calling `.unsubscribe()` will unhook a member's callbacks listening in
on the `Observable` stream. When creating an `Observable` you can also
return a custom callback, `onUnsubscribe`, that will be invoked when a
member listening to the stream has unsubscribed. This is useful for any
kind of cleanup that must be implemented. If we did not clear the
setTimeout then values would still be emitting, but there would be no
one listening. To save resources we should stop values from being
emitted. An important thing to note is that when you call
`.unsubscribe()` you are destroying the subscription object that is
listening, therefore the on-complete event attached to that subscription
object will not get called.

In most cases we will not need to explicitly call the `unsubscribe`
method unless we want to cancel early or our `Observable` has a longer
lifespan than our subscription. The default behavior of `Observable`
operators is to dispose of the subscription as soon as `.complete()` or
`.error()` messages are published. Keep in mind that RxJS was designed
to be used in a "fire and forget" fashion most of the time.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Observables vs Promises

Both `Promises` and `Observables` provide us with abstractions that help
us deal with the asynchronous nature of our applications. However, there
are important differences between the two:

  - As seen in the example above, `Observables` can define both the
    setup and teardown aspects of asynchronous behavior.

  - `Observables` are cancellable.

  - Moreover, `Observables` can be retried using one of the retry
    operators provided by the API, such as `retry` and `retryWhen`. On
    the other hand, `Promises` require the caller to have access to the
    original function that returned the promise in order to have a retry
    capability.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Observables From Other Sources

In the example above we created `Observables` from scratch which is
especially useful in understanding the anatomy of an `Observable`.

However, we will often create `Observables` from callbacks, promises,
events, collections or using many of the operators available on the API.

## Observable HTTP Events

A common operation in any web application is getting or posting data to
a server. Angular applications do this with the `Http` library, which
previously used `Promises` to operate in an asynchronous manner. The
updated `Http` library now incorporates `Observables` for triggering
events and getting new data. Let's take a quick look at this:

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    import {Http} from '@angular/http';
    import 'rxjs';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app',
        template: `
          <b>Angular HTTP requests using RxJs Observables!</b>
          <ul>
            <li *ngFor="let doctor of doctors">{{doctor.name}}</li>
          </ul>
    
          `
    })
    
    export class MyApp {
      private doctors = [];
    
      constructor(http: Http) {
        http.get('http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/')
            .flatMap((data) => data.json())
            .subscribe((data) => {
              this.doctors.push(data);
    
            });
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-033-observable-http-events)

This basic example outlines how the `Http` library's common routines
like `get`, `post`, `put` and `delete` all return `Observables` that
allow us to asynchronously process any resulting data.

## Observable Form Events

Let's take a look at how `Observables` are used in Angular forms. Each
field in a form is treated as an `Observable` that we can subscribe to
and listen for any changes made to the value of the input field.

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    import {FormControl, FormGroup, FormBuilder} from '@angular/forms';
    import 'rxjs/add/operator/map';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app',
        template: `
          <form [formGroup]="coolForm">
                <input formControlName="email">
            </form>
          <div>
                <b>You Typed Reversed:</b> {{data}}
            </div>
        `
    })
    
    export class MyApp {
    
        email: FormControl;
        coolForm: FormGroup;
        data: string;
    
        constructor(private fb: FormBuilder) {
            this.email = new FormControl();
    
            this.coolForm = fb.group({
                email: this.email
            });
    
            this.email.valueChanges
            .map(n=>n.split('').reverse().join(''))
            .subscribe(value => this.data = value);
        }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-034-observable-form-events)

Here we have created a new form by initializing a new `FormControl`
field and grouped it into a `FormGroup` tied to the `coolForm` HTML
form. The `Control` field has a property `.valueChanges` that returns an
`Observable` that we can subscribe to. Now whenever a user types
something into the field we'll get it immediately.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Observables Array Operations

In addition to simply iterating over an asynchronous collection, we can
perform other operations such as filter or map and many more as defined
in the RxJS API. This is what bridges an `Observable` with the iterable
pattern, and lets us conceptualize them as collections.

Let's expand our example and do something a little more with our stream:

```javascript
    export class MyApp {
      private doctors = [];
    
      constructor(http: Http) {
        http.get('http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/')
            .flatMap((response) => response.json())
            .filter((person) => person.id > 5)
            .map((person) => "Dr. " + person.name)
            .subscribe((data) => {
              this.doctors.push(data);
            });
      }
    }
```

[View Example](hhttps://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-035-observables-array-operations)

Here are two really useful array operations - `map` and `filter`. What
exactly do these do?

  - `map` will create a new array with the results of calling a provided
    function on every element in this array. In this example we used it
    to create a new result set by iterating through each item and
    appending the "Dr." abbreviation in front of every user's name. Now
    every object in our array has "Dr." prepended to the value of its
    name property.

  - `filter` will create a new array with all elements that pass the
    test implemented by a provided function. Here we have used it to
    create a new result set by excluding any user whose `id` property is
    less than six.

Now when our `subscribe` callback gets invoked, the data it receives
will be a list of JSON objects whose `id` properties are greater than or
equal to six and whose `name` properties have been prepended with `Dr.`.

Note the chaining function style, and the optional static typing that
comes with TypeScript, that we used in this example. Most importantly
functions like `filter` return an `Observable`, as in `Observables`
beget other `Observables`, similarly to promises. In order to use `map`
and `filter` in a chaining sequence we have flattened the results of our
`Observable` using `flatMap`. Since `filter` accepts an `Observable`,
and not an array, we have to convert our array of JSON objects from
`data.json()` to an `Observable` stream. This is done with `flatMap`.

There are many other array operations you can employ in your
`Observables`; look for them in the [RxJS
API](https://github.com/Reactive-Extensions/RxJS).

[rxmarbles.com](http://rxmarbles.com) is a helpful resource to
understand how the operations work.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Cold vs Hot Observables

`Observables` can be classified into two main groups: hot and cold
`Observables`. Let's start with a cold `Observable`.

```javascript
    const obsv = new Observable(observer => {
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(1);
      }, 1000);
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(2);
      }, 2000);
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(3);
      }, 3000);
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(4);
      }, 4000);
    
    });
    
    // Subscription A
    setTimeout(() => {
      obsv.subscribe(value => console.log(value));
    }, 0);
    
    // Subscription B
    setTimeout(() => {
      obsv.subscribe(value => console.log(`>>>> ${value}`));
    }, 2500);
```

[View Example](http://jsbin.com/felanu/46/edit?js,console)

In the above case subscriber B subscribes 2000ms after subscriber A. Yet
subscriber B is starting to get values like subscriber A only time
shifted. This behavior is referred to as a *cold `Observable`*. A useful
analogy is watching a pre-recorded video, such as on Netflix. You press
Play and the movie starts playing from the beginning. Someone else can
start playing the same movie in their own home 25 minutes later.

On the other hand there is also a *hot `Observable`*, which is more like
a live performance. You attend a live band performance from the
beginning, but someone else might be 25 minutes late to the show. The
band will not start playing from the beginning and the latecomer must
start watching the performance from where it is.

We have already encountered both kind of `Observables`. The example
above is a cold `Observable`, while the example that uses `valueChanges`
on our text field input is a hot `Observable`.

### Converting from Cold Observables to Hot Observables

A useful method within RxJS API is the `publish` method. This method
takes in a cold `Observable` as its source and returns an instance of a
`ConnectableObservable`. In this case we will have to explicitly call
`connect` on our hot `Observable` to start broadcasting values to its
subscribers.

```javascript
    const obsv = new Observable(observer => {
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(1);
      }, 1000);
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(2);
      }, 2000);
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(3);
      }, 3000);
    
      setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next(4);
      }, 4000);
    
    }).publish();
    
    obsv.connect();
    
    // Subscription A
    setTimeout(() => {
      obsv.subscribe(value => console.log(value));
    }, 0);
    
    // Subscription B
    setTimeout(() => {
      obsv.subscribe(value => console.log(`      ${value}`));
    }, 2500);
```

[View Example](http://jsbin.com/fewotud/3/edit?js,console)

In the case above, the live performance starts at `1000ms`, subscriber A
arrived to the concert hall at `0s` to get a good seat and our
subscriber B arrived at the performance at `2500ms` and missed a bunch
of songs.

Another useful method to work with hot `Observables` instead of
`connect` is `refCount`. This is an auto connect method, that will start
broadcasting as soon as there is more than one subscriber. Analogously,
it will stop if the number of subscribers goes to 0; in other words, if
everyone in the audience walks out, the performance will stop.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Summary

`Observables` offer a flexible set of APIs for composing and
transforming asynchronous streams. They provide a multitude of functions
to create streams from many other types, and to manipulate and transform
them. We've taken a look at how Angular uses `Observables` to create
streams from many other types to read user input, perform asynchronous
data fetches and set up custom emit/subscribe routines.

  - [rxjs 4 to 5
    migration](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/blob/master/MIGRATION.md)
  - [rxjs Observable
    API](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html)
  - [Which operator do I
    use?](https://xgrommx.github.io/rx-book/content/which_operator_do_i_use/instance_operators.html)
  - [rxmarbles](http://rxmarbles.com)
  - [RxJS Operators by
    Example](https://gist.github.com/btroncone/d6cf141d6f2c00dc6b35#file-rxjs_operators_by_example-md)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# What is DI?

So dependency injection makes programmers' lives easier, but what does
it *really* do?

Consider the following code:

```javascript
    class Hamburger {
      private bun: Bun;
      private patty: Patty;
      private toppings: Toppings;
      constructor() {
        this.bun = new Bun('withSesameSeeds');
        this.patty = new Patty('beef');
        this.toppings = new Toppings(['lettuce', 'pickle', 'tomato']);
      }
    }
```

The above code is a contrived class that represents a hamburger. The
class assumes a `Hamburger` consists of a `Bun`, `Patty` and `Toppings`.
The class is also responsible for *making* the `Bun`, `Patty` and
`Toppings`. This is a bad thing. What if a vegetarian burger were
needed? One naive approach might be:

```javascript
    class VeggieHamburger {
      private bun: Bun;
      private patty: Patty;
      private toppings: Toppings;
    
      constructor() {
        this.bun = new Bun('withSesameSeeds');
        this.patty = new Patty('tofu');
        this.toppings = new Toppings(['lettuce', 'pickle', 'tomato']);
      }
    }
```

There, problem solved right? But what if we need a gluten free
hamburger? What if we want different toppings... maybe something more
generic like:

```javascript
    class Hamburger {
      private bun: Bun;
      private patty: Patty;
      private toppings: Toppings;
    
      constructor(bunType: string, pattyType: string, toppings: string[]) {
        this.bun = new Bun(bunType);
        this.patty = new Patty(pattyType);
        this.toppings = new Toppings(toppings);
      }
    }
```

Okay this is a little different, and it's more flexible in some ways,
but it is still quite brittle. What would happen if the `Patty`
constructor changed to allow for new features? The whole `Hamburger`
class would have to be updated. In fact, any time any of these
constructors used in `Hamburger`'s constructor are changed, `Hamburger`
would also have to be changed.

Also, what happens during testing? How can `Bun`, `Patty` and `Toppings`
be effectively mocked?

Taking those concerns into consideration, the class could be rewritten
as:

```javascript
    class Hamburger {
      private bun: Bun;
      private patty: Patty;
      private toppings: Toppings;
    
      constructor(bun: Bun, patty: Patty, toppings: Toppings) {
        this.bun = bun;
        this.patty = patty;
        this.toppings = toppings;
      }
    }
```

Now when `Hamburger` is instantiated it does not need to know anything
about its `Bun`, `Patty`, or `Toppings`. The construction of these
elements has been moved out of the class. This pattern is so common that
TypeScript allows it to be written in shorthand like so:

```javascript
    class Hamburger {
      constructor(private bun: Bun, private patty: Patty,
        private toppings: Toppings) {}
    }
```

The `Hamburger` class is now simpler and easier to test. This model of
having the dependencies provided to `Hamburger` is basic dependency
injection.

However there is still a problem. How can the instantiation of `Bun`,
`Patty` and `Toppings` best be managed?

This is where dependency injection as a *framework* can benefit
programmers, and it is what Angular provides with its dependency
injection system.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# DI Framework

So there's a fancy new `Hamburger` class that is easy to test, but it's
currently awkward to work with. Instantiating a `Hamburger`
    requires:

```javascript
    const hamburger = new Hamburger(new Bun(), new Patty('beef'), new Toppings([]));
```

That's a lot of work to create a `Hamburger`, and now all the different
pieces of code that make `Hamburger`s have to understand how `Bun`,
`Patty` and `Toppings` get instantiated.

One approach to dealing with this new problem might be to make a factory
function like so:

```javascript
    function makeHamburger() {
        const bun = new Bun();
        const patty = new Patty('beef');
        const toppings = new Toppings(['lettuce', 'tomato', 'pickles']);
        return new Hamburger(bun, patty, toppings);
    }
```

This is an improvement, but when more complex `Hamburger`s need to be
created this factory will become confusing. The factory is also
responsible for knowing how to create four different components. This is
a lot for one function.

This is where a dependency injection framework can help. DI Frameworks
have the concept of an `Injector` object. An Injector is a lot like the
factory function above, but more general, and powerful. Instead of one
giant factory function, an Injector has a factory, or *recipe* (pun
intended) for a collection of objects. With an `Injector`, creating a
`Hamburger` could be as easy as:

```javascript
    const injector = new Injector([Hamburger, Bun, Patty, Toppings]);
    const burger = injector.get(Hamburger);
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# `@Inject` and `@Injectable`

Statements that look like `@SomeName` are decorators.
[Decorators](http://blog.wolksoftware.com/decorators-reflection-javascript-typescript "ES Decorators Explained")
are a proposed extension to JavaScript. In short, decorators let
programmers modify and/or tag methods, classes, properties and
parameters. There is a lot to decorators. In this section the focus will
be on decorators relevant to DI: `@Inject` and `@Injectable`. For more
information on Decorators please see [the EcmaScript 6 and TypeScript
Features section](../../features/).

## @Inject()

`@Inject()` is a *manual* mechanism for letting Angular know that a
*parameter* must be injected. It can be used like so:

```javascript
    import { Component, Inject } from '@angular/core';
    import { ChatWidget } from '../components/chat-widget';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `Encryption: {{ encryption }}`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      encryption = this.chatWidget.chatSocket.encryption;
    
      constructor(@Inject(ChatWidget) private chatWidget) { }
    }
```

In the above we've asked for `chatWidget` to be the singleton Angular
associates with the `class` symbol `ChatWidget` by calling
`@Inject(ChatWidget)`. It's important to note that we're using
`ChatWidget` for its typings *and* as a *reference* to its singleton. We
are *not* using `ChatWidget` to instantiate anything, Angular does that
for us behind the scenes.

When using TypeScript, `@Inject` is only needed for injecting
*primitives*. TypeScript's types let Angular know what to do in most
cases. The above example would be simplified in TypeScript to:

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { ChatWidget } from '../components/chat-widget';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app',
      template: `Encryption: {{ encryption }}`
    })
    export class App {
      encryption = this.chatWidget.chatSocket.encryption;
    
      constructor(private chatWidget: ChatWidget) { }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-038-inject)

## @Injectable()

`@Injectable()` lets Angular know that a *class* can be used with the
dependency injector. `@Injectable()` is not *strictly* required if the
class has *other* Angular decorators on it or does not have any
dependencies. What is important is that any class that is going to be
injected with Angular *is decorated*. However, best practice is to
decorate injectables with `@Injectable()`, as it makes more sense to the
reader.

Here's an example of `ChatWidget` marked up with `@Injectable`:

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { AuthService } from './auth-service';
    import { AuthWidget } from './auth-widget';
    import { ChatSocket } from './chat-socket';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class ChatWidget {
      constructor(
        public authService: AuthService,
        public authWidget: AuthWidget,
        public chatSocket: ChatSocket) { }
    }
```

In the above example Angular's injector determines what to inject into
`ChatWidget`'s constructor by using type information. This is possible
because these particular dependencies are typed, and are *not primitive*
types. In some cases Angular's DI needs more information than just
types.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Injection Beyond Classes

So far the only types that injection has been used for have been
classes, but Angular is not limited to injecting classes. The concept of
`providers` was also briefly touched upon.

So far `providers` have been used with Angular's `@NgModule` meta in an
array. `providers` have also all been class identifiers. Angular lets
programmers specify providers with a more verbose "recipe". This is done
with by providing Angular an Object literal (`{}`):

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { App } from './containers/app'; // hypothetical app component
    import { ChatWidget } from './components/chat-widget';
    
    @NgModule({
      providers: [ { provide: ChatWidget, useClass: ChatWidget } ],
    })
    export class DiExample {};
```

This example is yet another example that `provide`s a class, but it does
so with Angular's longer format.

This long format is really handy. If the programmer wanted to switch out
`ChatWidget` implementations, for example to allow for a
`MockChatWidget`, they could do this easily:

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { App } from './containers/app'; // hypothetical app component
    import { ChatWidget } from './components/chat-widget';
    import { MockChatWidget } from './components/mock-chat-widget';
    
    @NgModule({
      providers: [ { provide: ChatWidget, useClass: MockChatWidget } ],
    })
    export class DiExample {};
```

The best part of this implementation swap is that the injection system
knows how to build `MockChatWidget`, and will sort all of that out.

The injector can use more than classes though. `useValue` and
`useFactory` are two other examples of `provider` "recipes" that Angular
can use. For example:

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { App } from './containers/app'; // hypothetical app component
    
    const randomFactory = () => { return Math.random(); };
    
    @NgModule({
      providers: [ { provide: 'Random', useFactory: randomFactory } ],
    })
    export class DiExample {};
```

In the hypothetical app component, 'Random' could be injected like:

```javascript
    import { Component, Inject, provide } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `Random: {{ value }}`
    })
    export class AppCompoennt {
      value: number;
    
      constructor(@Inject('Random') r) {
        this.value = r;
      }
    }
```

[View
Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-039-injection-beyond-classes)

One important note is that 'Random' is in quotes, both in the `provide`
function and in the consumer. This is because as a factory we have no
`Random` identifier anywhere to access.

The above example uses Angular's `useFactory` recipe. When Angular is
told to `provide` things using `useFactory`, Angular expects the
provided value to be a function. Sometimes functions and classes are
even more than what's needed. Angular has a "recipe" called `useValue`
for these cases that works almost exactly the same:

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { AppComponent } from './containers/app.component'; // hypothetical app component
    
    @NgModule({
      providers: [ { provide: 'Random', useValue: Math.random() } ],
    })
    export class DiExample {};
```

[View
Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-040-injection-beyond-classes-2)

In this case, the product of `Math.random` is assigned to the `useValue`
property passed to the `provider`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Avoiding Injection Collisions: OpaqueToken

Since Angular allows the use of tokens as identifiers to its dependency
injection system, one of the potential issues is using the same token to
represent different entities. If, for example, the string `'token'` is
used to inject an entity, it's possible that something totally unrelated
also uses `'token'` to inject a different entity. When it comes time for
Angular to resolve one of these entities, it might be resolving the
wrong one. This behavior might happen rarely or be easy to resolve when
it happens within a small team - but when it comes to multiple teams
working separately on the same codebase or 3rd party modules from
different sources are integrated these collisions become a bigger issue.

Consider this example where the main application is a consumer of two
modules: one that provides an email service and another that provides a
logging service.

*app/email/email.service.ts*

```javascript
    export const apiConfig = 'api-config';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class EmailService {
      constructor(@Inject(apiConfig) public apiConfig) { }
    }
```

*app/email/email.module.ts*

```javascript
    @NgModule({
      providers: [ EmailService ],
    })
    export class EmailModule { }
```

The email service api requires some configuration settings, identified
by the string `api-config`, to be provided by the DI system. This module
should be flexible enough so that it can be used by different modules in
different applications. This means that those settings should be
determined by the application characteristics and therefore provided by
the `AppModule` where the `EmailModule` is imported.

*app/logger/logger.service.ts*

```javascript
    export const apiConfig = 'api-config';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class LoggerService {
      constructor(@Inject(apiConfig) public apiConfig) { }
    }
```

*app/logger/logger.module.ts*

```javascript
    @NgModule({
      providers: [ LoggerService ],
    })
    export class LoggerModule { }
```

The other service, `LoggerModule`, was created by a different team than
the one that created `EmailModule`, and it that also requires a
configuration object. Not surprisingly, they decided to use the same
token for their configuration object, the string `api-config`. In an
effort to avoid a collision between the two tokens with the same name,
we could try to rename the imports as shown below. In an effort to avoid
a collision between the two tokens with the same name, we could try to
rename the imports as shown below.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { apiConfig as emailApiConfig } from './email/index';
    import { apiConfig as loggerApiConfig } from './logger/index';
    
    @NgModule({
      ...
      providers: [
        { provide: emailApiConfig, useValue: { apiKey: 'email-key', context: 'registration' } },
        { provide: loggerApiConfig, useValue: { apiKey: 'logger-key' } },
      ],
      ...
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-041-avoiding-injection-collisions)

When the application runs, it encounters a collision problem resulting
in both modules getting the same value for their configuration, in this
case `{ apiKey: 'logger-key' }`. When it comes time for the main
application to specify those settings, Angular overwrites the first
`emailApiConfig` value with the `loggerApiConfig` value, since that was
provided last. In this case, module implementation details are leaking
out to the parent module. Not only that, those details were obfuscated
through the module exports and this can lead to problematic debugging.
This is where Angular's `OpaqueToken` comes into play.

## OpaqueToken

`OpaqueToken`s are unique and immutable values which allow developers to
avoid collisions of dependency injection token ids.

```javascript
    import { OpaqueToken } from '@angular/core';
    
    const name = 'token';
    const token1 = new OpaqueToken(name);
    const token2 = new OpaqueToken(name);
    
    console.log(token1 === token2); // false
```

Here, regardless of whether or not the same value is passed to the
constructor of the token, it will not result in identical symbols.

*app/email/email.module.ts*

```javascript
    export const apiConfig = new OpaqueToken('api-config');
    
    @Injectable()
    export class EmailService {
      constructor(@Inject(apiConfig) public apiConfig: EmailConfig) { }
    }
```

```javascript
    export const apiConfig = new OpaqueToken('api-config');
    
    @Injectable()
    export class LoggerService {
      constructor(@Inject(apiConfig) public apiConfig: LoggerConfig) { }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-042-opaque-token)

After turning the identifying tokens into `OpaqueToken`s without
changing anything else, the collision is avoided. Every service gets the
correct configuration object from the root module and Angular is now
able to differentiate two tokens that uses the same string.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# The Injector Tree

Angular injectors (generally) return singletons. That is, in the
previous example, all components in the application will receive the
same random number. In Angular 1.x there was only one injector, and all
services were singletons. Angular overcomes this limitation by using a
tree of injectors.

In Angular there is not just one injector per application, there is *at
least* one injector per application. Injectors are organized in a tree
that parallels Angular's component tree.

Consider the following tree, which models a chat application consisting
of two open chat windows, and a login/logout widget.

![Figure: Image of a Component Tree, and a DI Tree](handout/images/di-tree.png)

In the image above, there is one root injector, which is established
through `@NgModule`'s `providers` array. There's a `LoginService`
registered with the root injector.

Below the root injector is the root `@Component`. This particular
component has no `providers` array and will use the root injector for
all of its dependencies.

There are also two child injectors, one for each `ChatWindow` component.
Each of these components has their own instantiation of a `ChatService`.

There is a third child component, `Logout/Login`, but it has no
injector.

There are several grandchild components that have no injectors. There
are `ChatFeed` and `ChatInput` components for each `ChatWindow`. There
are also `LoginWidget` and `LogoutWidget` components with `Logout/Login`
as their parent.

The injector tree does not make a new injector for every component, but
does make a new injector for every component with a `providers` array in
its decorator. Components that have no `providers` array look to their
parent component for an injector. If the parent does not have an
injector, it looks up until it reaches the root injector.

*Warning:* Be careful with `provider` arrays. If a child component is
decorated with a `providers` array that contains dependencies that were
*also* requested in the parent component(s), the dependencies the child
receives will shadow the parent dependencies. This can have all sorts of
unintended consequences.

Consider the following example:
```javascript
*app/module.ts*
```

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    import { ChildInheritorComponent, ChildOwnInjectorComponent } from './components/index';
    import { Unique } from './services/unique';
    
    
    const randomFactory = () => { return Math.random(); };
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [BrowserModule],
      declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        ChildInheritorComponent,
        ChildOwnInjectorComponent,
      ],
      /** Provide dependencies here */
      providers: [Unique],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent],
    })
    export class AppModule {}
```
In the example above, `Unique` is bootstrapped into the root injector.

*app/services/unique.ts*

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class Unique {
      value = (+Date.now()).toString(16) + '.' +
        Math.floor(Math.random() * 500);
    }
```

The `Unique` service generates a value unique to *its* instance upon
instantiation.

*app/components/child-inheritor.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component, Inject } from '@angular/core';
    import { Unique } from '../services/unique';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-child-inheritor',
      template: `<span>{{ value }}</span>`
    })
    export class ChildInheritorComponent {
      value = this.u.value;
    
      constructor(private u: Unique) { }
    }
```

The child inheritor has no injector. It will traverse the component tree
upwards looking for an injector.

*app/components/child-own-injector.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component, Inject } from '@angular/core';
    import { Unique } from '../services/unique';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'child-own-injector',
      template: `<span>{{ value }}</span>`,
      providers: [Unique]
    })
    export class ChildOwnInjectorComponent {
      value = this.u.value;
    
      constructor(private u: Unique) { }
    }
```

The child own injector component has an injector that is populated with
its own instance of `Unique`. This component will not share the same
value as the root injector's `Unique` instance.

*app/containers/app.ts*

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <p>
          App's Unique dependency has a value of {{ value }}
        </p>
        <p>
          which should match
        </p>
        <p>
          ChildInheritor's value:
          <app-child-inheritor></app-child-inheritor>
        </p>
        <p>
          However,
        </p>
        <p>
          ChildOwnInjector should have its own value:
          <app-child-own-injector></app-child-own-injector>
        </p>
        <p>
          ChildOwnInjector's other instance should also have its own value:
          <app-child-own-injector></app-child-own-injector>
        </p>`,
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      value: number = this.u.value;
    
      constructor(private u: Unique) { }
    }
```

[View
Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-043-the-injector-tree)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Making HTTP Requests

To make HTTP requests we will use the `Http` service. In this example we
are creating a `SearchService` to interact with the Spotify API.

```javascript
    import { Http } from '@angular/http';
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { Observable } from 'rxjs';
    import 'rxjs/add/operator/map';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchService {
    
      constructor(private http: Http) {}
    
      search(term: string) {
        return this.http
          .get('https://api.spotify.com/v1/search?q=' + term + '&type=artist')
          .map(response => response.json());
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-044-making-http-requests)

Here we are making an HTTP GET request which is exposed to us as an
observable. You will notice the `.map` operator chained to `.get`. The
`Http` service provides us with the raw response as a string. In order
to consume the fetched data we have to convert it to JSON.

In addition to `Http.get()`, there are also `Http.post()`, `Http.put()`,
`Http.delete()`, etc. They all return observables.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Catch and Release

We also have the option of using the `.catch` operator. It allows us to
catch errors on an existing stream, do something, and pass the exception
onwards.

```javascript
    import { Http } from '@angular/http';
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchService {
    
      constructor(private http: Http) {}
    
      search(term: string) {
        return this.http.get('https://api.spotify.com/v1/dsds?q=' + term + '&type=artist')
          .map((response) => response.json())
          .catch((e) => {
            return Observable.throw(
              new Error(`${ e.status } ${ e.statusText }`)
            );
          });
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-045-catch-and-release)

It also allows us to inspect the error and decide which route to take.
For example, if we encounter a server error then use a cached version of
the request otherwise re-throw.

```javascript
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchService {
    
      ...
    
      search(term: string) {
        return this.http.get(`https://api.spotify.com/v1/dsds?q=${term}&type=artist`)
          .map(response => response.json())
          .catch(e => {
            if (e.status >==  500) {
              return cachedVersion();
            } else {
              return Observable.throw(
                new Error(`${ e.status } ${ e.statusText }`)
              );
            }
          });
      }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Cancel a Request

Cancelling an HTTP request is a common requirement. For example, you
could have a queue of requests where a new request supersedes a pending
request and that pending request needs to be cancelled.

To cancel a request we call the `unsubscribe` function of its
subscription.

```javascript
    @Component({ /* ... */ })
    export class AppComponent {
      /* ... */
    
      search() {
        const request = this.searchService.search(this.searchField.value)
          .subscribe(
            result => { this.result = result.artists.items; },
            err => { this.errorMessage = err.message; },
            () => { console.log('Completed'); }
          );
    
        request.unsubscribe();
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-046-cancel-a-request)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Retry

There are times when you might want to retry a failed request. For
example, if the the user is offline you might want to retry a few times
or indefinitely.

![Figure: Retry example from Slack](handout/http/catching-rejections/slack-retry.jpg)

Use the RxJS `retry` operator. It accepts a `retryCount` argument. If
not provided, it will retry the sequence indefinitely.

Note that the error callback is not invoked during the retry phase. If
the request fails it will be retried and only after all the retry
attempts fail the stream throws an error.

```javascript
    import { Http } from '@angular/http';
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { Observable } from 'rxjs';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchService {
    
      constructor(private http: Http) {}
    
      search(term: string) {
        let tryCount = 0;
        return this.http.get('https://api.spotify.com/v1/dsds?q=' + term + '&type=artist')
          .map(response => response.json())
          .retry(3);
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-047-http-retry)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Combining Streams with `flatMap`

![Figure: FlatMap created by ReactiveX licensed under CC-3
(http://reactivex.io/documentation/operators/flatmap.html)](handout/images/flat-map.png)

A case for FlatMap:

  - [A simple observable
    stream](http://jsbin.com/nutegi/36/edit?js,console)
  - [A stream of arrays](http://jsbin.com/lerake/3/edit?js,console)
  - [Filter the items from each
    event](http://jsbin.com/widadiz/2/edit?js,console)
  - [Stream of filtered
    items](http://jsbin.com/reyoja/2/edit?js,console)
  - [Filter + map simplified with
    flatMap](http://jsbin.com/sahiye/2/edit?js,console)

Let's say we wanted to implement an AJAX search feature in which every
keypress in a text field will automatically perform a search and update
the page with the results. How would this look? Well we would have an
`Observable` subscribed to events coming from an input field, and on
every change of input we want to perform some HTTP request, which is
also an `Observable` we subscribe to. What we end up with is an
`Observable` of an `Observable`.

By using `flatMap` we can transform our event stream (the keypress
events on the text field) into our response stream (the search results
from the HTTP request).

*_app/services/search.service.ts_*

```javascript
    import {Http} from '@angular/http';
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchService {
    
      constructor(private http: Http) {}
    
      search(term: string) {
        return this.http
                .get('https://api.spotify.com/v1/search?q=' + term + '&type=artist')
                .map((response) => response.json())
      }
    }
```

Here we have a basic service that will undergo a search query to Spotify
by performing a get request with a supplied search term. This `search`
function returns an `Observable` that has had some basic post-processing
done (turning the response into a JSON object).

OK, let's take a look at the component that will be using this service.

*_app/app.component.ts_*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { FormControl,
        FormGroup,
        FormBuilder } from '@angular/forms';
    import { SearchService } from './services/search.service';
    import 'rxjs/Rx';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: `
            <form [formGroup]="coolForm"><input formControlName="search" placeholder="Search Spotify artist"></form>
    
            <div *ngFor="let artist of result">
              {{artist.name}}
            </div>
        `
    })
    
    export class AppComponent {
        searchField: FormControl;
        coolForm: FormGroup;
    
        constructor(private searchService:SearchService, private fb:FormBuilder) {
            this.searchField = new FormControl();
            this.coolForm = fb.group({search: this.searchField});
    
            this.searchField.valueChanges
              .debounceTime(400)
                .flatMap(term => this.searchService.search(term))
                .subscribe((result) => {
                    this.result = result.artists.items
                });
        }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-048-http-flatmap)

Here we have set up a basic form with a single field, `search`, which we
subscribe to for event changes. We've also set up a simple binding for
any results coming from the `SearchService`. The real magic here is
`flatMap` which allows us to flatten our two separate subscribed
`Observables` into a single cohesive stream we can use to control events
coming from user input and from server responses.

Note that flatMap flattens a stream of `Observables` (i.e `Observable`
of `Observables`) to a stream of emitted values (a simple `Observable`),
by emitting on the "trunk" stream everything that will be emitted on
"branch" streams.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Enhancing Search with `switchMap`

There is a problem with our previous implementation of incremental
search.

What if the server, for some reason, takes a very long time to respond
to a particular query? If we use `flatMap`, we run the risk of getting
results back from the server in the wrong order. Let's illustrate this
with an example.

## A Quick Example

Consider a situation where we first type in the letters `ABC`, and
suppose the string `ABC` is actually a special string where it will take
the server a few extra seconds to reply.

Meanwhile, after we paused for a bit (more than the debounce time), we
decide to type in another letter (the letter X) and our app sends a
request to the server for the string `ABCX`. Since `ABCX` is not
considered a special string, the server replies very quickly and our app
sets the suggestions for `ABCX`.

A few seconds later, however, the server finally replies with the
response for the `ABC` string, and our app receives that response and
sets the search suggestions for `ABC`, overwriting the suggestions for
the `ABCX` string, even though the request for that actually came
afterwards.

Here is a simple diagram to illustrate the issue:

```javascript
    // A1: Request for `ABC`
    // A2: Response for `ABC`
    // B1: Request for `ABCX`
    // B2: Response for `ABCX`
    
    --A1----------A2-->
    ------B1--B2------>
```

You can see that A2 arrives after B2 even though the A1 request began
first. This will end up showing the wrong results to the user. "If the
last input in the search was `ABCX` why am I seeing the results for
`ABC`?" the user might think. To get around this problem we need to
replace `flatMap` with `switchMap`.

## What is `switchMap`?

`switchMap` is very similar to `flatMap`, but with a very important
distinction. Any events to be merged into the trunk stream are ignored
if a new event comes in. Here is a marble diagram showing the behavior
of `switchMap`:

![Figure: SwitchMap created by ReactiveX licensed under CC-3
(http://reactivex.io/documentation/operators/flatmap.html)](handout/images/switch-map.png)

In short, every time an event comes down the stream, `flatMap` will
subscribe to (and invoke) a new observable without unsubscribing from
any other observable created by a previous event. `switchMap` on the
other hand will automatically unsubscribe from any previous observable
when a new event comes down the stream.

In the diagram above, the round "marbles" represent events in the
originating stream. In the resulting stream, "diamonds" mark the
creation (and subscription) of an inner observable (that is eventually
merged onto the trunk stream) and "squares" represent values emitted
from that same inner observable.

Just like `flatMap`, the red marble gets replaced with a red diamond and
a subsequent red square. The interaction between the green and blue
marble events are more interesting. Note that the green marble gets
mapped to a green diamond immediately. And if enough time had passed, a
green square would be pushed into the trunk stream but we do not see
that here.

Before the green square event is able to happen, a blue marble comes
through and gets mapped to a blue diamond. What happened is that the
green square is now ignored and do not get merged back into the trunk
stream. The behavior of `switchMap` can be likened to a `flatMap` that
"switches" to the more immediate incoming event and ignores all
previously created event streams.

In our case, because the blue marble event happened very quickly after
the green marble, we "switched" over to focus on dealing with the blue
marble instead. This behavior is what will prevent the problem we
described above.

If we apply `switchMap` to the above example, the response for `ABC`
would be ignored and the suggestions for `ABCX` would remain.

## Enhanced Search with `switchMap`

Here is the revised component using `switchMap` instead of `flatMap`.

*_app/app.component.ts_*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { FormControl,
        FormGroup,
        FormBuilder } from '@angular/forms';
    import { SearchService } from './services/search.service';
    import 'rxjs/Rx';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: `
            <form [formGroup]="coolForm"><input formControlName="search" placeholder="Search Spotify artist"></form>
    
            <div *ngFor="let artist of result">
              {{artist.name}}
            </div>
        `
    })
    
    export class AppComponent {
        searchField: FormControl;
        coolForm: FormGroup;
    
        constructor(private searchService:SearchService, private fb:FormBuilder) {
            this.searchField = new FormControl();
            this.coolForm = fb.group({search: this.searchField});
    
            this.searchField.valueChanges
              .debounceTime(400)
                .switchMap(term => this.searchService.search(term))
                .subscribe((result) => {
                    this.result = result.artists.items
                });
        }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-049-http-switchmap)

This implementation of incremental search with `switchMap` is more
robust than the one we saw on the previous page with `flatMap`. The
suggestions that the user sees will always eventually reflect the last
thing the user typed. Thanks to this, we can guarantee a great user
experience regardless of how the server responds.

## Further Resources

  - [SwitchMap
    Examples](https://www.learnrxjs.io/operators/transformation/switchmap.html)
  - [Egghead Video Tutorial on
    SwitchMap](https://egghead.io/lessons/rxjs-starting-a-stream-with-switchmap?course=step-by-step-async-javascript-with-rxjs)
  - [RxJS Documentation for
    SwitchMap](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html#instance-method-switchMap)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Requests as Promises

The observable returned by Angular http client can be converted it into
a promise.

> We recommend using observables over promises. By converting to a
> promise you will be lose the ability to cancel a request and the
> ability to chain RxJS operators.

```javascript
    import { Http } from '@angular/http';
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import 'rxjs/add/operator/map';
    import 'rxjs/add/operator/toPromise';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchService {
    
      constructor(private http: Http) {}
    
      search(term: string) {
        return this.http
          .get(`https://api.spotify.com/v1/search?q=${term}&type=artist`)
          .map((response) => response.json())
          .toPromise();
      }
    }
```

We would then consume it as a regular promise in the component.

```javascript
    @Component({ /* ... */ })
    export class AppComponent {
        /* ... */
    
        search() {
            this.searchService.search(this.searchField.value)
              .then((result) => {
            this.result = result.artists.items;
          })
          .catch((error) => console.error(error));
        }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Change Detection Strategies in Angular 1.x vs Angular 2

Another difference between both versions of the framework is the way the
nodes of an application (directives or components) are checked to see if
the DOM needs to be updated.

Because of the nature of two-way data binding, in Angular 1 there was no
guarantee that a parent node would always be checked before a child
node. It was possible that a child node could change a parent node or a
sibling or any other node in the tree, and that in turn would trigger
new updates down the chain. This made it difficult for the change
detection mechanism to traverse all the nodes without falling in a
circular loop with the infamous message:

```javascript
    10 $digest() iterations reached. Aborting!
```

In Angular, changes are guaranteed to propagate unidirectionally. The
change detector will **traverse each node only once**, always starting
from the root. That means that a parent component is always checked
before its children components.

*Tree traversing in Angular 1.x vs Angular 2*

![Figure: File Structure](handout/images/angular1-vs-angular2.jpg)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## How Change Detection Works

Let's see how change detection works with a simple example.

We are going to create a simple `MovieApp` to show information about one
movie. This app is going to consist of only two components: the
`MovieComponent` that shows information about the movie and the
`AppComponent` which holds a reference to the movie with buttons to
perform some actions.

Our `AppComponent` will have three properties: the `slogan` of the app,
the `title` of the movie and the lead `actor`. The last two properties
will be passed to the `MovieComponent` element referenced in the
template.

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    import {MovieComponent} from './movie.component';
    import {Actor} from './actor.model';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <h1>MovieApp</h1>
        <p>{{ slogan }}</p>
        <button type="button" (click)="changeActorProperties()">
          Change Actor Properties
        </button>
        <button type="button" (click)="changeActorObject()">
          Change Actor Object
        </button>
        <app-movie [title]="title" [actor]="actor"></app-movie>`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      slogan = 'Just movie information';
      title = 'Terminator 1';
      actor = new Actor('Arnold', 'Schwarzenegger');
    
      changeActorProperties() {
        this.actor.firstName = 'Nicholas';
        this.actor.lastName = 'Cage';
      }
    
      changeActorObject() {
        this.actor = new Actor('Bruce', 'Willis');
      }
    }
```

In the above code snippet, we can see that our component defines two
buttons that trigger different methods. The `changeActorProperties` will
update the lead actor of the movie by directly changing the properties
of the `actor` object. In contrast, the method `changeActorObject` will
change the information of the actor by creating a completely new
instance of the `Actor` class.

The `Actor` model is pretty straightforward, it is just a class that
defines the `firstName` and the `lastName` of an actor.

*app/actor.model.ts*

```javascript
    export class Actor {
      constructor(
        public firstName: string,
        public lastName: string) {}
    }
```

Finally, the `MovieComponent` shows the information provided by the
`AppComponent` in its template.

*app/movie.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
    import { Actor } from './actor.model';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-movie',
      template: `
        <div>
          <h3>{{ title }}</h3>
          <p>
            <label>Actor:</label>
            <span>{{actor.firstName}} {{actor.lastName}}</span>
          </p>
        </div>`
    })
    export class MovieComponent {
      @Input() title: string;
      @Input() actor: Actor;
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-050-change-detection)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Change Detector Classes

At runtime, Angular will create special classes that are called *change
detectors*, one for every component that we have defined. In this case,
Angular will create two classes: `AppComponent` and
`AppComponent_ChangeDetector`.

The goal of the change detectors is to know which model properties used
in the template of a component have changed since the last time the
change detection process ran.

In order to know that, Angular creates an instance of the appropriate
change detector class and a link to the component that it's supposed to
check.

In our example, because we only have one instance of the `AppComponent`
and the `MovieComponent`, we will have only one instance of the
`AppComponent_ChangeDetector` and the `MovieComponent_ChangeDetector`.

The code snippet below is a conceptual model of how the
`AppComponent_ChangeDetector` class might look.

```javascript
    class AppComponent_ChangeDetector {
    
      constructor(
        public previousSlogan: string,
        public previousTitle: string,
        public previousActor: Actor,
        public movieComponent: MovieComponent
      ) {}
    
      detectChanges(slogan: string, title: string, actor: Actor) {
        if (slogan !== this.previousSlogan) {
          this.previousSlogan = slogan;
          this.movieComponent.slogan = slogan;
        }
        if (title !== this.previousTitle) {
          this.previousTitle = title;
          this.movieComponent.title = title;
        }
        if (actor !== this.previousActor) {
          this.previousActor = actor;
          this.movieComponent.actor = actor;
        }
      }
    }
```

Because in the template of our `AppComponent` we reference three
variables (`slogan`, `title` and `actor`), our change detector will have
three properties to store the "old" values of these three properties,
plus a reference to the `AppComponent` instance that it's supposed to
"watch". When the change detection process wants to know if our
`AppComponent` instance has changed, it will run the method
`detectChanges` passing the current model values to compare with the old
ones. If a change was detected, the component gets updated.

> Disclaimer: This is just a conceptual overview of how change detector
> classes work; the actual implementation may be different.

## Change Detection Strategy: Default

By default, Angular defines a certain change detection strategy for
every component in our application. To make this definition explicit, we
can use the property `changeDetection` of the `@Component` decorator.

*app/movie.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { ChangeDetectionStrategy } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      // ...
      changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.Default
    })
    export class MovieComponent {
      // ...
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-051-change-detection-2)

Let's see what happens when a user clicks the button "Change Actor
Properties" when using the `Default` strategy.

As noted previously, changes are triggered by events and the propagation
of changes is done in two phases: the application phase and the change
detection phase.

**Phase 1 (Application):**

In the first phase, the application (our code) is responsible for
updating the models in response to some event. In this scenario, the
properties `actor.firstName` and `actor.lastName` are updated.

**Phase 2 (Change Detection):**

Now that our models are updated, Angular must update the templates using
change detection.

Change detection always starts at the root component, in this case the
`AppComponent`, and checks if any of the model properties bound to its
template have changed, comparing the old value of each property (before
the event was triggered) to the new one (after the models were updated).
The `AppComponent` template has a reference to three properties,
`slogan`, `title` and `actor`, so the comparison made by its
corresponding change detector will look like:

  - Is `slogan !== previousSlogan`? No, it's the same.
  - Is `title !== previousTitle`? No, it's the same.
  - Is `actor !== previousActor`? No, it's the same.

Notice that even if we change the properties of the `actor` object, we
are always working with the same instance. Because we are doing a
shallow comparison, the result of asking if `actor !== previousActor`
will always be `false` even when its internal property values have
indeed changed. Even though the change detector was unable to find any
change, the **default strategy** for the change detection is **to
traverse all the components of the tree** even if they do not seem to
have been modified.

Next, change detection moves down in the component hierarchy and check
the properties bound to the `MovieComponent`'s template doing a similar
comparison:

  - Is `title !== previousTitle`? No, it's the same.
  - Is `actorFirstName !== previousActorFirstName`? **Yes**, it has
    changed.
  - Is `actorLastName !== previousActorLastName`? **Yes**, it has
    changed.

Finally, Angular has detected that some of the properties bound to the
template have changed so it will update the DOM to get the view in sync
with the model.

## Performance Impact

Traversing all the tree components to check for changes could be costly.
Imagine that instead of just having one reference to `<app-movie>`
inside our `AppComponent`'s template, we have multiple
    references?

```javascript
    <movie *ngFor="let movie of movies" [title]="movie.title" [actor]="movie.actor"></movie>`
```

If our movie list grows too big, the performance of our system will
start degrading. We can narrow the problem to one particular comparison:

  - Is `actor !== previousActor`?

As we have learned, this result is not very useful because we could have
changed the properties of the object without changing the instance, and
the result of the comparison will always be `false`. Because of this,
change detection is going to have to check every child component to see
if any of the properties of that object (`firstName` or `lastName`) have
changed.

What if we can find a way to indicate to the change detection that our
`MovieComponent` depends only on its inputs and that these inputs are
immutable? In short, we are trying to guarantee that when we change any
of the properties of the `actor` object, we end up with a different
`Actor` instance so the comparison `actor !== previousActor` will always
return `true`. On the other hand, if we did not change any property, we
are not going to create a new instance, so the same comparison is going
to return `false`.

If the above condition can be guaranteed (create a new object every time
any of its properties changes, otherwise we keep the same object) and
when checking the inputs of the `MovieComponent` has this result:

  - Is `title !== previousTitle`? No, it's the same.
  - Is `actor !== previousActor`? No, it's the same.

then we can skip the internal check of the component's template because
we are now certain that nothing has changed internally and there's no
need to update the DOM. This will improve the performance of the change
detection system because fewer comparisons have to be made to propagate
changes through the app.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Change Detection Strategy: OnPush

To inform Angular that we are going to comply with the conditions
mentioned before to improve performance, we will use the `OnPush` change
detection strategy on the `MovieComponent`.

*app/movie.component.ts*

```javascript
    @Component({
      // ...
      changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
    })
    export class MovieComponent {
      // ...
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-052-change-detection-onpush)

This will inform Angular that our component only depends on its inputs
and that any object that is passed to it shouldiew be considered immutable.
This time when we click the "Change Actor Properties" button nothing
changes in the view.

Let's follow the logic behind it again. When the user clicks the button,
the method `changeActorProperties` is called and the properties of the
`actor` object get updated.

When the change detection analyzes the properties bound to the
`AppComponent`'s template, it will see the same picture as before:

  - Is `slogan !== previousSlogan` No, it's the same.
  - Is `title !== previousTitle`? No, it's the same.
  - Is `actor !== previousActor`? No, it's the same.

But this time, we explicitly told Angular that our component only
depends on its inputs and all of them are immutable. Angular then
assumes that the `MovieComponent` hasn't changed and will skip the check
for that component. Because we didn't force the `actor` object to be
immutable, we end up with our model out of sync with the view.

Let's rerun the app but this time we will click the "Change Actor
Object" button. This time, we are creating a new instance of the `Actor`
class and assigning it to the `this.actor` object. When change detection
analyzes the properties bound to the `AppComponent`'s template it will
find:

  - Is `slogan !== previousSlogan` No, it's the same.
  - Is `title !== previousTitle`? No, it's the same.
  - Is `actor !== previousActor`? **Yes**, it has changed.

Because change detection now knows that the `actor` object changed (it's
a new instance) it will go ahead and continue checking the template for
`MovieComponent` to update its view. At the end, our templates and
models are in sync.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Enforcing Immutability

We cheated a little in the previous example. We told Angular that all of
our inputs, including the `actor` object, were immutable objects, but we
went ahead and updated its properties, violating the immutability
principle. As a result we ended up with a sync problem between our
models and our views. One way to enforce immutability is using the
library [Immutable.js](https://facebook.github.io/immutable-js/).

Because in JavaScript primitive types like `string` and `number` are
immutable by definition, we should only take care of the objects we are
using. In this case, the `actor` object.

Here's an example comparing a mutable type like an `array` to an
immutable type like a `string`:

```javascript
    var b = ['C', 'a', 'r'];
    b[0] = 'B';
    console.log(b) // ['B', 'a', 'r'] => The first letter changed, arrays are mutable
    
    var a = 'Car';
    a[0] = 'B';
    console.log(a); // 'Car' => The first letter didn't change, strings are immutable
```

First we need to install the `immutable.js` library using the command:

```javascript
    npm install --save immutable
```

Then in our `AppComponent` we import the library and use it to create an
actor object as an immutable.

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { MovieComponent } from './movie.component';
    import * as Immutable from 'immutable';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <h1>MovieApp</h1>
        <p>{{ slogan }}</p>
        <button type="button" (click)="changeActor()">
          Change Actor
        </button>
        <app-movie [title]="title" [actor]="actor"></app-movie>`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      slogan = 'Just movie information';
      title = 'Terminator 1';
      actor = Immutable.Map({
        firstName: 'Arnold',
        lastName: 'Schwarzenegger'
      })
    
      changeActor() {
        this.actor = this.actor.merge({ firstName: 'Nicholas', lastName: 'Cage' });
      }
    }
```

Now, instead of creating an instance of an `Actor` class, we are
defining an immutable object using `Immutable.Map`. Because `this.actor`
is now an immutable object, we cannot change its internal properties
(`firstName` and `lastName`) directly. What we can do however is create
another object based on `actor` that has different values for both
fields - that is exactly what the `merge` method does.

Because we are always getting a new object when we try to change the
`actor`, there's no point in having two different methods in our
component. We removed the methods `changeActorProperties` and
`changeActorObject` and created a new one called `changeActor`.

Additional changes have to be made to the `MovieComponent` as well.
First we need to declare the `actor` object as an immutable type, and in
the template, instead of trying to access the object properties directly
using a syntax like `actor.firstName`, we need to use the `get` method
of the immutable.

*app/movie.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
    import { ChangeDetectionStrategy } from '@angular/core';
    import * as Immutable from 'immutable';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-movie',
      template: `
        <div>
          <h3>{{ title }}</h3>
          <p>
            <label>Actor:</label>
            <span>{{ actor.get('firstName') }} {{ actor.get('lastName') }}</span>
          </p>
        </div>`,
      changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
    })
    export class MovieComponent {
      @Input() title: string;
      @Input() actor: Immutable.Map<string, string>;
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-053-enforcing-immutability)

Using this pattern we are taking full advantage of the "OnPush" change
detection strategy and thus reducing the amount of work done by Angular
to propagate changes and to get models and views in sync. This improves
the performance of the application.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Additional Resources

To learn more about change detection, visit the following links (in
order of relevance):

  - [NgConf 2014: Change Detection
    (Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jvKGQSFQf10)
  - [Angular API Docs:
    ChangeDetectionStrategy](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/core/index/ChangeDetectionStrategy-enum.html)
  - [Victor Savkin Blog: Change Detection in
    Angular 2](http://victorsavkin.com/post/110170125256/change-detection-in-angular-2)
  - [Victor Savkin Blog: Two Phases of Angular 2
    Applications](http://victorsavkin.com/post/114168430846/two-phases-of-angular-2-applications)
  - [Victor Savkin Blog: Angular, Immutability and
    Encapsulation](http://victorsavkin.com/post/133936129316/angular-immutability-and-encapsulation)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating an Attribute Directive

Let's start with a simple button that moves a user to a different page.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-visit-rangle',
      template: `
        <button
          type="button"
          (click)="visitRangle()">
          Visit Rangle
        </button>
      `
    })
    export class VisitRangleComponent {
      visitRangle() {
        location.href = 'https://rangle.io';
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-054-creating-attribute-directive-1)

We're polite, so rather than just sending the user to a new page, we're
going to ask if they're ok with that first by creating an attribute
directive and attaching that to the button.

```javascript
    @Directive({
      selector: `[appConfirm]`
    })
    export class ConfirmDirective {
      @HostListener('click', ['$event'])
      confirmFirst(event: Event) {
        return window.confirm('Are you sure you want to do this?');
      }
    
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-055-creating-attribute-directive-2)

Directives are created by using the `@Directive` decorator on a class
and specifying a selector. For directives, the selector name must be
camelCase and wrapped in square brackets to specify that it is an
attribute binding. We're using the `@HostListener` decorator to listen
in on events on the component or element it's attached to. In this case
we're watching the `click` event and passing in the event details which
are given by the special `$event` keyword. Next, we want to attach this
directive to the button we created earlier.

```javascript
    template: `
      <button
        type="button"
        (click)="visitRangle()"
        appConfirm>
        Visit Rangle
      </button>
    `
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-055-creating-attribute-directive-2)

Notice, however, that the button doesn't work quite as expected. That's
because while we're listening to the click event and showing a confirm
dialog, the component's click handler runs before the directive's click
handler and there's no communication between the two. To do this we'll
need to rewrite our directive to work with the component's click
handler.

```javascript
    @Directive({
      selector: `[appConfirm]`
    })
    export class ConfirmDirective {
      @Input() appConfirm = () => {};
    
      @HostListener('click', ['$event'])
      confirmFirst() {
        const confirmed = window.confirm('Are you sure you want to do this?');
    
        if(confirmed) {
          this.appConfirm();
        }
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-057-creating-attribute-directive-3)

Here, we want to specify what action needs to happen after a confirm
dialog's been sent out and to do this we create an input binding just
like we would on a component. We'll use our directive name for this
binding and our component code changes like this:

``` 
  <button
    type="button"
    [appConfirm]="visitRangle">
    Visit Rangle
  </button>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-057-creating-attribute-directive-3)

Now our button works just as we expected. We might want to be able to
customize the message of the confirm dialog however. To do this we'll
use another binding.

```javascript
    @Directive({
      selector: `[appConfirm]`
    })
    export class ConfirmDirective {
      @Input() appConfirm = () => {};
      @Input() confirmMessage = 'Are you sure you want to do this?';
    
      @HostListener('click', ['$event'])
      confirmFirst() {
        const confirmed = window.confirm(this.confirmMessage);
    
        if(confirmed) {
          this.appConfirm();
        }
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-059-creating-attribute-directive-4)

Our directive gets a new input property that represents the confirm
dialog message, which we pass in to `window.confirm` call. To take
advantage of this new input property, we add another binding to our
button.

```javascript
    <button
      type="button"
      [appConfirm]="visitRangle"
      confirmMessage="Click ok to visit Rangle.io!">
      Visit Rangle
    </button>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-059-creating-attribute-directive-4)

Now we have a button with a customizable confirm message before it moves
you to a new url.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Listening to an Element Host

Listening to the *host* - that is, the DOM element the directive is
attached to - is among the primary ways directives extend the component
or element's behavior. Previously, we saw its common use case.

```javascript
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appMyDirective]'
    })
    class MyDirective {
      @HostListener('click', ['$event'])
      onClick() {}
    }
```

We can also respond to external events, such as from `window` or
`document`, by adding the target in the listener.

```javascript
    @Directive({
      selector: `[appHighlight]`
    })
    export class HighlightDirective {
      constructor(private el: ElementRef, private renderer: Renderer) { }
    
      @HostListener('document:click', ['$event'])
      handleClick(event: Event) {
        if (this.el.nativeElement.contains(event.target)) {
          this.highlight('yellow');
        } else {
          this.highlight(null);
        }
      }
    
      highlight(color) {
        this.renderer.setElementStyle(this.el.nativeElement, 'backgroundColor', color);
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-061-listening-element-host)

> Although less common, we can also use `@HostListener` if we'd like to
> register listeners on the host element of a Component.

## Host Elements

The concept of a host element applies to both directives and components.

For a directive, the concept is fairly straight forward. Whichever
template tag you place your directive attribute on is considered the
host element. If we were implementing the `HighlightDirective` above
like so:

```javascript
    <div>
      <p appHighlight>
        <span>Text to be highlighted</span>
      </p>
    </div>
```

The `<p>` tag would be considered the host element. If we were using a
custom `TextBoxComponent` as the host, the code would look like this:

```javascript
    <div>
      <app-my-text-box appHighlight>
        <span>Text to be highlighted</span>
      </app-my-text-box>
    </div>
```

In the context of a Component, the host element is the tag that you
create through the `selector` string in the component configuration. For
the `TextBoxComponent` in the example above, the host element in the
context of the component class would be the `<app-my-text-box>` tag.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Setting Properties with a Directive

We can use attribute directives to affect the value of properties on the
host node by using the `@HostBinding` decorator.

The `@HostBinding` decorator allows us to programatically set a property
value on the directive's host element. It works similarly to a property
binding defined in a template, except it specifically targets the host
element. The binding is checked for every change detection cycle, so it
can change dynamically if desired.

For example, lets say that we want to create a directive for buttons
that dynamically adds a class when we press on it. That could look
something
    like:

```javascript
    import { Directive, HostBinding, HostListener } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appButtonPress]'
    })
    export class ButtonPressDirective {
      @HostBinding('attr.role') role = 'button';
      @HostBinding('class.pressed') isPressed: boolean;
    
      @HostListener('mousedown') hasPressed() {
        this.isPressed = true;
      }
      @HostListener('mouseup') hasReleased() {
        this.isPressed = false;
      }
    }
```

Notice that for both use cases of `@HostBinding` we are passing in a
string value for which property we want to affect. If we don't supply a
string to the decorator, then the name of the class member will be used
instead.

In the first `@HostBinding`, we are statically setting the role
attribute to `button`. For the second example, the `pressed` class will
be applied when `isPressed` is true.

> *Tip:* Though less common, `@HostBinding` can also be applied to
> Components if required.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating a Structural Directive

We'll create an `appDelay` structural directive that delays
instantiation of a component or element. This can potentially be used
for cosmetic effect or for manually handling timing of when components
are loaded, either for performance or UX.

```javascript
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appDelay]'
    })
    export class DelayDirective {
      constructor(
        private templateRef: TemplateRef<any>,
        private viewContainerRef: ViewContainerRef
      ) { }
    
      @Input()
      set appDelay(time: number): void { }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-062-creating-structural-directive)

We use the same `@Directive` class decorator as attribute directives and
define a selector in the same way. One big difference here is that due
to the nature of structural directives being bound to a template, we
have access to `TemplateRef`, an object representing the `template` tag
the directive is attached to. We also add an input property in a similar
way, but this time with a `set` handler so we can execute some code when
Angular performs the binding. We bind `delay` in exactly the same way as
the Angular built-in structural directives.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div *ngFor="let item of [1,2,3,4,5,6]">
          <card *appDelay="500 * item">
            {{item}}
          </card>
        </div>
      `
    
    })
    export class AppComponent {
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-062-creating-structural-directive)

Notice that no content is being rendered however. This is due to Angular
simulating the html `template` tag and not rendering any child elements
by default. To be able to get this content to render, we'll have to
attach the template given by `TemplateRef` as an *embedded view* to a
*view container*.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# View Containers and Embedded Views


View Containers are containers where one or more *Views* can be
attached. Views represent some sort of layout to be rendered and the
context under which to render it. View containers are anchored to
components and are responsible for generating its output so this means
that changing which views are attached to the view container affect the
final rendered output of the component.

Two types of views can be attached to a view container: *Host Views*
which are linked to a *Component*, and *Embedded Views* which are linked
to a *template*. Since structural directives interact with templates, we
are interested in using *Embedded Views* in this
    case.

```javascript
    import { Directive, Input, TemplateRef, ViewContainerRef } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appDelay]'
    })
    export class DelayDirective {
      constructor(
        private templateRef: TemplateRef<any>,
        private viewContainerRef: ViewContainerRef
      ) { }
    
      @Input()
      set appDelay(time: number): void {
        setTimeout(
          () => {
            this.viewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView(this.templateRef);
          },
          time);
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-064-view-containers)

Directives get access to the view container by injecting a
`ViewContainerRef`. Embedded views are created and attached to a view
container by calling the `ViewContainerRef`'s `createEmbeddedView`
method and passing in the template. We want to use the template our
directive is attached to so we pass in the injected `TemplateRef`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Providing Context Variables to Directives

Suppose we want to record some metadata on how our directive affected
components and make this data available to them. For example, in our
`appDelay` directive, we're making a `setTimeout` call, which in
JavaScript's single-threaded asynchronous model means that it may not
run after the exact time we provided. We'll capture the exact time it
loads and make that variable available in the template.

```javascript
    export class DelayContext {
      constructor(private loadTime: number) { }
    }
    
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appDelay]'
    })
    export class DelayDirective {
      constructor(
        private templateRef: TemplateRef<DelayContext>,
        private viewContainerRef: ViewContainerRef
      ) { }
    
      @Input()
      set appDelay(time: number): void {
        setTimeout(
          () => {
            this.viewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView(
              this.templateRef,
              new DelayContext(performance.now())
            );
          },
          time);
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-065-context-variables)

We've made a few changes to our `appDelay` directive. We've created a
new `DelayContext` class that contains the context that we want to
provide to our directive. In this case, we want to capture the actual
time the `createEmbeddedView` call occurs and make that available as
`loadTime` in our directive. We've also provided our new class as the
generic argument to the `TemplateRef` function. This enables static
analysis and lets us make sure our calls to `createEmbeddedView` pass in
a variable of type `DelayContext`. In our `createEmbeddedView` call we
pass in our variable which has captured the time of the method call.

In the component using `appDelay`, we access the `loadTime` context
variable in the same way we access variables in `ngFor`.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div *ngFor="let item of [1,2,3,4,5,6]">
          <card *delay="500 * item; let loaded = loadTime">
            <div class="main">{{item}}</div>
            <div class="sub">{{loaded | number:'1.4-4'}}</div>
          </card>
        </div>
      `
    })
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-066-context-variables-2)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# AoT limitations

However, AoT is not perfect. The main limitation is that AoT, due to the
way it compiles the raw code, cannot be used with common code patterns,
for example, default exports from modules, template literals for
templates, and functions in providers, routes, or declarations.
Currently, we do not have a complete list of "AoT Do's and Don'ts" and
the Angular team has not released anything regarding this issue. Rangle
made its own list
[here](https://github.com/rangle/angular-2-aot-sandbox) and also
provides a sandbox for testing features with AoT.

Another problem with AoT is that when the application reaches certain
complexity, the AoT bundle compared to JiT bundle can actually takes up
more space. As an trade-off of having a simpler logic for browser
(therefore faster rendering speed), the code generated by AoT is
actually more verbose compared to "dynamic" JiT.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# AoT Configuration

To enable AoT in Angular, there are two possible methods:

  - using `ngc` directly
  - using `@ngtools/webpack`

We recommend the second way because it fits the Angular + Webpack
toolchain the best. One problem of using raw `ngc` is that `ngc` tries
to inline CSS while lacking necessary context. For example, the `@import
'basscss-basic'` statement in `index.css` would cause an error like
`Error: Compilation failed. Resource file not found` with `ngc`. It
lacks the information that `'basscss-basic'` is actually a node module
inside `node_modules`. On the other hand, `@ngtools/webpack` provides
`AotPlugin` and loader for Webpack which shares the context with other
loaders/plugins. So when `ngc` is called by `@ngtools/webpack`, it can
gather necessary informations from other plugins like `postcss-import`
to correctly understand things like `@import 'basscss-basic'`.

## Config `@ngtools/webpack`

First, get `@ngtools/webpack` from `npm` and save it as a development
dependency:

```javascript
    npm install -D @ngtools/webpack
```

Then, inside the Webpack configuration file (usually named as
`webpack.config.js`), add following code:

```javascript
    import {AotPlugin} from '@ngtools/webpack'
    
    exports = { /* ... */
      module: {
        rules: [
          {
            test: /\.ts$/,
            loader: '@ngtools/webpack',
          }
        ]
      },
    
      plugins: [
        new AotPlugin({
          tsConfigPath: 'path/to/tsconfig.json',
          entryModule: 'path/to/app.module#AppModule'
        })
      ]
    }
```

Here `@ngtools/webpack` replaces other typescript loader like
`ts-loader` or `awesome-typescript-loader`. It works with `AotPlugin`
together to enable AoT compilation. More details can be found
[here](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack).

(Note, for project generated by `angular-cli`, turning on AoT can be
simple as `ng build --aot`, but since angular-cli does not allow
customized webpack configuration for complex use cases, it may be
insufficient.)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# What is Immutability?

*Immutability* is a design pattern where something can't be modified
after being instantiated. If we want to change the value of that thing,
we must recreate it with the new value instead. Some JavaScript types
are immutable and some are mutable, meaning their value can change
without having to recreate it. Let's explain this difference with some
examples:

```javascript
    let movie = {
      name: 'Star Wars',
      episode: 7
    };
    
    let myEp = movie.episode;
    
    movie.episode = 8;
    
    console.log(myEp); // outputs 7
```

As you can see in this case, although we changed the value of
`movie.episode`, the value of `myEp` didn't change. That's because
`movie.episode`'s type, `number`, is immutable.

```javascript
    let movie1 = {
      name: 'Star Wars',
      episode: 7
    };
    
    let movie2 = movie1;
    
    movie2.episode = 8;
    
    console.log(movie1.episode); // outputs 8
```

In this case however, changing the value of episode on one object also
changed the value of the other. That's because `movie1` and `movie2` are
of the **Object** type, and Objects are mutable.

Of the JavaScript built-in types, the following are immutable:

  - Boolean
  - Number
  - String
  - Symbol
  - Null
  - Undefined

And the following are mutable:

  - Object
  - Array
  - Function

String's an unusual case, since it can be iterated over using for...of
and provides numeric indexers just like an array, but doing something
like:

```javascript
    let message = 'Hello world';
    message[5] = '-';
    console.log(message); // writes Hello world
```

> This will throw an error in strict mode and fail silently in
> non-strict mode.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# The Case for Immutability

One of the more difficult things to manage when structuring an
application is managing its state. This is especially true when your
application can execute code asynchronously. Let's say you execute some
piece of code, but something causes it to wait (such as an HTTP request
or user input). After it's completed, you notice the state it's
expecting changed because some other piece of code executed
asynchronously and changed its value.

Dealing with that kind of behavior on a small scale might be manageable,
but this can show up all over an application and can be a real headache
as the application gets bigger with more interactions and more complex
logic.

Immutability attempts to solve this by making sure that any object
referenced in one part of the code can't be changed by another part of
the code unless they have the ability to rebind it directly.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Object.assign

`Object.assign` lets us merge one object's properties into another,
replacing values of properties with matching names. We can use this to
copy an object's values without altering the existing one.

```javascript
    let movie1 = {
      name: 'Star Wars',
      episode: 7
    };
    
    let movie2 = Object.assign({}, movie1);
    
    movie2.episode = 8;
    
    console.log(movie1.episode); // writes 7
    console.log(movie2.episode); // writes 8
```

As you can see, although we have some way of copying an object, we
haven't made it immutable, since we were able to set the episode's
property to 8. Also, how do we modify the episode property in this case?
We do that through the assign call:

```javascript
    let movie1 = {
      name: 'Star Wars',
      episode: 7
    };
    
    let movie2 = Object.assign({}, movie1, { episode: 8 });
    
    console.log(movie1.episode); // writes 7
    console.log(movie2.episode); // writes 8
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Object.freeze

`Object.freeze` allows us to disable object mutation.

```javascript
    let movie1 = {
      name: 'Star Wars',
      episode: 7
    };
    
    let movie2 = Object.freeze(Object.assign({}, movie1));
    
    movie2.episode = 8; // fails silently in non-strict mode,
                        // throws error in strict mode
    
    console.log(movie1.episode); // writes 7
    console.log(movie2.episode); // writes 7
```

One problem with this pattern, however, is how much more verbose our
code is and how difficult it is to read and understand what's actually
going on with our data with all of the boilerplate calls to
`Object.freeze` and `Object.assign`. We need some more sensible
interface to create and interact with immutable data, and that's where
Immutable.js fits in.

> `Object.freeze` is also very slow and should not be used with large
> arrays.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Map.merge

Sometimes we want to update multiple properties. We can do this using
the `merge` method.

```javascript
    let baseButton = Immutable.Map<string, any>({
      text: 'Click me!',
      state: 'inactive',
      width: 200,
      height: 30
    });
    
    let submitButton = baseButton.merge({
      text: 'Submit',
      state: 'active'
    });
    
    console.log(submitButton);
    // writes { text: 'Submit', state: 'active', width: 200, height: 30 }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Deleting Keys

Keys can be deleted from maps using the `Map.delete` and `Map.deleteIn`
methods.

```javascript
    let movie = Immutable.fromJS({
        name: 'Star Wars',
        episode: 7,
        actors: [
            { name: 'Daisy Ridley', character: 'Rey'},
            { name: 'Harrison Ford', character: 'Han Solo' }
        ],
        mpaa: {
            rating: 'PG-13',
            reason: 'sci-fi action violence'
        }
    });
    
    movie = movie.delete('mpaa');
    
    console.log(movie.toObject());
    
    /* writes
    { name: 'Star Wars',
      episode: 7,
      actors: List [ Map { "name": "Daisy Ridley", "character": "Rey" }, Map { "name": "Harrison Ford", "character": "Han Solo" } ] }
    */
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Maps are Iterable

Maps in Immutable.js are *iterable*, meaning that you can `map`,
`filter`, `reduce`, etc. each key-value pair in the map.

```javascript
    let features = Immutable.Map<string, boolean>({
        'send-links': true,
        'send-files': true,
        'local-storage': true,
        'mirror-notifications': false,
        'api-access': false
    });
    
    let myFeatures = features.reduce((providedFeatures, provided, feature) => {
        if(provided)
            providedFeatures.push(feature);
    
      return providedFeatures;
    }, []);
    
    console.log(myFeatures); // [ 'send-links', 'send-files', 'local-storage' ]
```

```javascript
    const mapMap = Immutable.Map({ a: 0, b: 1, c: 2 });
    mapMap.map(i => i * 30);
    
    const mapFilter = Immutable.Map({ a: 0, b: 1, c: 2 });
    
    mapFilter.filter(i => i % 2);
    
    const mapReduce = Immutable.Map({ a: 10, b: 20, c: 30 });
    
    mapReduce.reduce((acc, i) => acc + i, 0);
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Immutable.List

`List` is the immutable version of JavaScript's array
    structure.

```javascript
    let movies = Immutable.fromJS([ // again use fromJS for deep immutability
      {
        name: 'The Fellowship of the Ring',
        released: 2001,
        rating: 8.8
      },
      {
        name: 'The Two Towers',
        released: 2002,
        rating: 8.7
      }
    ]);
    
    movies = movies.push(Immutable.Map({
        name: 'The Return of the King',
        released: 2003
    }));
    
    movies = movies.update(2, movie => movie.set('rating', 8.9)); // 0 based
    
    movies = movies.zipWith(
      (movie, seriesNumber) => movie.set('episode', seriesNumber),
      Immutable.Range(1, movies.size + 1) // size property instead of length
    );
    
    console.log(movies);
    /* writes
    List [
      Map { "name": "The Fellowship of the Ring", "released": 2001, "rating": 8.8, "episode": 1 },
      Map { "name": "The Two Towers", "released": 2002, "rating": 8.7, "episode": 2 },
      Map { "name": "The Return of the King", "released": 2003, "rating": 8.9, "episode": 3 } ]
      */
```

Here we use the `Immutable.fromJS` call again since we have objects
stored in the array. We call `push` to add items to the list, just like
we would call it on an array. But since we're creating a new copy, we
must rebind the variable. We have the same `set` and `update` calls when
we want to update items at specific indexes. We also have access to
array functions like `map`, `reduce` with support for extras like the
one we're using here, `zipWith`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Performance and Transient Changes

## Performance

Immutable data structures often have a performance penalty due to the
costs of allocation new memory and copying data. Consider these two
examples, one which uses a mutable array and one which uses an
Immutable.js collection.

**Mutable**

```javascript
    const list = [];
    let val = "";
    
    Immutable.Range(0, 1000000)
      .forEach(function() {
        val += "concatenation";
        list.push(val);
      });
```

**Immutable**

```javascript
    const init = {
      list: Immutable.List(),
      val: ""
    };
    
    const list = Immutable.Range(0, 1000000)
      .reduce(function(reduced) {
        var next = reduced.val + "concatenation";
    
        return {
          list: reduced.list.push(next),
          val: next
        };
      }, init).list
```

Here the fully immutable code runs around 90% slower than the mutable
code\! While immutable data can make code much easier to reason about,
there is definitely a cost associated with that decision. As we can see
here for iterative concat, this can have a major impact on usability.
Fortunately, Immutable.js provides some features where the performance
costs can be mitigated.

## Persistent Data Structures and Transient Changes

Immutable data structures are also sometimes referred to as *persistent
data structures*, since their values persist for their lifetime.
Immutable.js provides the option for *transient changes*: operations
during which an immutable data structure can perform mutable changes
locally while returning an immutable result. This is one approach to
solving the performance issues we encountered earlier. Let's revisit the
immutable case outlined in the performance example, but using a
transient data structure this time:

```javascript
    import * as Immutable from 'immutable';
    
    let list = list.withMutations(mutableList => {
      let val = "";
    
      return Immutable.Range(0, 1000000)
        .forEach(() => {
          val += "concatenation";
          mutableList.push(val);
      });
    });
    
    console.log(list.size); // writes 1000000
    list.push('');
    console.log(list.size); // writes 1000000
```

This transient list builder is still much slower than our fully mutable
implementation but much faster than our fully immutable version.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Official documentation

For more information on Immutable.js, visit the official documentation
at <https://facebook.github.io/immutable-js/>.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Pipes

Like a filter, a pipe also takes data as input and transforms it to the
desired output. A basic example of using pipes is shown below:

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'product-price',
      template: `<p>Total price of product is {{ price | currency }}</p>`
    })
    export class ProductPrice {
      price = 100.1234;
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-067-using-pipes)

## Passing Parameters

A pipe can accept optional parameters to modify the output. To pass
parameters to a pipe, simply add a colon and the parameter value to the
end of the pipe expression:

```javascript
    pipeName: parameterValue
```

You can also pass multiple parameters this way:

```javascript
    pipeName: parameter1: parameter2
```

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: '<p>Total price of product is {{ price | currency: "CAD": true: "1.2-4" }}</p>'
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      price = 100.123456;
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-068-passing-parameters)

## Chaining Pipes

We can chain pipes together to make use of multiple pipes in one
expression.

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        template: '<p>Total price of product is {{ price | currency: "CAD": true: "1.2-4" | lowercase }}</p>'
    })
    export class ProductPrice {
      price = 100.123456;
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-069-chaining-pipes)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Custom Pipes

Angular allows you to create your own custom pipes:

```javascript
    import { Pipe, PipeTransform } from '@angular/core';
    
    const FILE_SIZE_UNITS = ['B', 'KB', 'MB', 'GB', 'TB', 'PB', 'EB', 'ZB', 'YB'];
    const FILE_SIZE_UNITS_LONG = ['Bytes', 'Kilobytes', 'Megabytes', 'Gigabytes', 'Pettabytes', 'Exabytes', 'Zettabytes', 'Yottabytes'];
    
    @Pipe({
      name: 'formatFileSize'
    })
    export class FormatFileSizePipe implements PipeTransform {
      transform(sizeInBytes: number, longForm: boolean): string {
        const units = longForm
          ? FILE_SIZE_UNITS_LONG
          : FILE_SIZE_UNITS;
    
        let power = Math.round(Math.log(sizeInBytes) / Math.log(1024));
        power = Math.min(power, units.length - 1);
    
        const size = sizeInBytes / Math.pow(1024, power); // size in new units
        const formattedSize = Math.round(size * 100) / 100; // keep up to 2 decimals
        const unit = units[power];
    
        return `${formattedSize} ${unit}`;
      }
    }
```

Each custom pipe implementation must:

  - have the `@Pipe` decorator with pipe metadata that has a `name`
    property. This value will be used to call this pipe in template
    expressions. It must be a valid JavaScript identifier.
  - implement the `PipeTransform` interface's transform method. This
    method takes the value being piped and a variable number of
    arguments of any type and return a transformed ("piped") value.

Each colon-delimited parameter in the template maps to one method
argument in the same order.

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <div>
          <p *ngFor="let f of fileSizes">{{ f | formatFileSize }}</p>
          <p>{{ largeFileSize | formatFileSize:true }}</p>
        </div>`
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      fileSizes = [10, 100, 1000, 10000, 100000, 10000000, 10000000000];
      largeFileSize = Math.pow(10, 15)
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-070-custom-pipes)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Stateful Pipes

There are two categories of pipes:

  - *Stateless* pipes are pure functions that flow input data through
    without remembering anything or causing detectable side-effects.
    Most pipes are stateless. The `CurrencyPipe` we used and the length
    pipe we created are examples of a stateless pipe.

  - *Stateful* pipes are those which can manage the state of the data
    they transform. A pipe that creates an HTTP request, stores the
    response and displays the output, is a stateful pipe. Stateful Pipes
    should be used cautiously.

Angular provides `AsyncPipe`, which is stateful.

## AsyncPipe

AsyncPipe can receive a `Promise` or `Observable` as input and subscribe
to the input automatically, eventually returning the emitted value(s).
It is stateful because the pipe maintains a subscription to the input
and its returned values depend on that subscription.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <p>Total price of product is {{fetchPrice | async | currency:"CAD":true:"1.2-2"}}</p>
        <p>Seconds: {{seconds | async}} </p>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      fetchPrice = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => resolve(10), 500);
      });
    
      seconds = Observable.of(0).concat(Observable.interval(1000))
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-071-async-pipe)

## Implementing Stateful Pipes

Pipes are stateless by default. We must declare a pipe to be stateful by
setting the pure property of the `@Pipe` decorator to false. This
setting tells Angular’s change detection system to check the output of
this pipe each cycle, whether its input has changed or not.

```javascript
    // naive implementation assumes small number increments
    @Pipe({
      name: 'animateNumber',
      pure: false
    })
    export class AnimateNumberPipe implements PipeTransform {
      private currentNumber: number = null; // intermediary number
      private targetNumber: number = null;
    
      transform(targetNumber: number): string {
        if (targetNumber !== this.targetNumber) {
          this.currentNumber = this.targetNumber || targetNumber;
          this.targetNumber = targetNumber;
    
          const difference = this.targetNumber - this.currentNumber
    
          Observable.interval(100)
            .take(difference)
            .subscribe(() => {
              this.currentNumber++;
            })
        }
    
        return this.currentNumber;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-072-stateful-pipes)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Getting Started

### Opt-In APIs

Before we dive into any of the form features, we need to do a little bit
of housekeeping. We need to bootstrap our application using the
`FormsModule` or
    `ReactiveFormsModule`.

```javascript
    import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic'
    import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
    import { AppComponent } from './components'
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        FormsModule,
      ],
      declarations: [AppComponent],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    }
    
    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
```

### Input Labeling

Most of the form examples use the following HTML5 style for labeling
inputs:

```javascript
    <label for="name">Name</label>
    <input type="text" name="username" id="name">
```

Angular also supports the alternate HTML5 style, which precludes the
necessity of `id`s on `<input>`s:

```javascript
    <label>
      Name
      <input type="text" name="username">
    </label>
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Template-Driven Forms

The most straightforward approach to building forms in Angular is to
take advantage of the directives provided for you.

First, consider a typical form:

```javascript
    <form method="POST" action="/register" id="signup-form">
      <label for="email">Email</label>
      <input type="text" name="email" id="email">
    
      <label for="password">Password</label>
      <input type="password" name="password" id="password">
    
      <button type="submit">Sign Up</button>
    </form>
```

Angular has already provided you a `form` directive, and form related
directives such as input, etc which operates under the covers. For a
basic implementation, we just have to add a few attributes and make sure
our component knows what to do with the data.

*index.html*

```javascript
    <signup-form>Loading...</signup-form>
```

*signup-form.component.html*

```javascript
    <form #signupForm="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="registerUser(signupForm)">
      <label for="email">Email</label>
      <input type="text" name="email" id="email" ngModel>
    
      <label for="password">Password</label>
      <input type="password" name="password" id="password" ngModel>
    
      <button type="submit">Sign Up</button>
    </form>
```

*signup-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { NgForm } from '@angular/forms';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-signup-form',
      templateUrl: 'app/signup-form.component.html',
    })
    export class SignupFormComponent {
      registerUser(form: NgForm) {
        console.log(form.value);
        // {email: '...', password: '...'}
        // ...
      }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Nesting Form Data

If you find yourself wrestling to fit nested trees of data inside of a
flat form, Angular has you covered for both simple and complex cases.

Let's assume you had a payment endpoint which required data, similar to
the following:

```javascript
    {
      "contact": {
        "firstname": "Bob",
        "lastname": "McKenzie",
        "email": "BobAndDoug@GreatWhiteNorth.com",
        "phone": "555-TAKE-OFF"
      },
      "address": {
        "street": "123 Some St",
        "city": "Toronto",
        "region": "ON",
        "country": "CA",
        "code": "H0H 0H0"
      },
      "paymentCard": {
        "provider": "Credit Lending Company Inc",
        "cardholder": "Doug McKenzie",
        "number": "123 456 789 012",
        "verification": "321",
        "expiry": "2020-02"
      }
    }
```

While forms are flat and one-dimensional, the data built from them is
not. This leads to complex transforms to convert the data you’ve been
given into the shape you need.

Worse, in cases where it is possible to run into naming collisions in
form inputs, you might find yourself using long and awkward names for
semantic purposes.

```javascript
    <form>
      <fieldset>
        <legend>Contact</legend>
    
        <label for="contact_first-name">First Name</label>
        <input type="text" name="contact_first-name" id="contact_first-name">
    
        <label for="contact_last-name">Last Name</label>
        <input type="text" name="contact_last-name" id="contact_last-name">
    
        <label for="contact_email">Email</label>
        <input type="email" name="contact_email" id="contact_email">
    
        <label for="contact_phone">Phone</label>
        <input type="text" name="contact_phone" id="contact_phone">
      </fieldset>
    
      <!-- ... -->
    
    </form>
```

A form handler would have to convert that data into a form that your API
expects. Thankfully, this is something Angular has a solution for.

### `ngModelGroup`

When building a template-driven form in Angular, we can lean on the
`ngModelGroup` directive to arrive at a cleaner implementation, while
Angular does the heavy lifting of converting form-fields into nested
data.

```javascript
    <form #paymentForm="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="purchase(paymentForm)">
      <fieldset ngModelGroup="contact">
        <legend>Contact</legend>
    
        <label>
          First Name <input type="text" name="firstname" ngModel>
        </label>
        <label>
          Last Name <input type="text" name="lastname" ngModel>
        </label>
        <label>
          Email <input type="email" name="email" ngModel>
        </label>
        <label>
          Phone <input type="text" name="phone" ngModel>
        </label>
      </fieldset>
    
      <fieldset ngModelGroup="address">
        <!-- ... -->
      </fieldset>
    
      <fieldset ngModelGroup="paymentCard">
        <!-- ... -->
      </fieldset>
    </form>
```

>   - Using the alternative HTML5 labeling format; IDs have no bearing
>     on the `ngForm` / `ngModel` paradigm
>   - Aside from semantic purposes, `ngModelGroup` does not have to be
>     used on `<fieldset>` — it would work just as well on a `<div>`.

If we were to fill out the form, it would end up in the shape we need
for our API, and we can still rely on the HTML field validation if we
know it’s available.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Template Model Binding

### One-Way Binding

If you need a form with default values, you can start using the
value-binding syntax for ngModel.

*app/signup-form.component.html*

```javascript
    <form #signupForm="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="register(signupForm)">
      <label for="username">Username</label>
      <input type="text" name="username" id="username" [ngModel]="generatedUser">
    
      <label for="email">Email</label>
      <input type="email" name="email" id="email" ngModel>
    
      <button type="submit">Sign Up</button>
    </form>
```

*app/signup-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { NgForm } from '@angular/forms';
    // ...
    
    @Component({
      // ...
    })
    export class SignupFormComponent {
      generatedUser: string = generateUniqueUserID();
    
      register(form: NgForm) {
        console.log(form.value);
        // ...
      }
    }
```

### Two-Way Binding

While Angular assumes one-way binding by default, two-way binding is
still available if you need it.

In order to have access to two-way binding in template-driven forms, use
the “Banana-Box” syntax (`[(ngModel)]="propertyName"`).

Be sure to declare all of the properties you will need on the component.

```javascript
    <form #signupForm="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="register(signupForm)">
      <label for="username">Username</label>
      <input type="text" name="username" id="username" [(ngModel)]="username">
    
      <label for="email">Email</label>
      <input type="email" name="email" id="email" [(ngModel)]="email">
    
      <button type="submit">Sign Up</button>
    </form>
```

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { NgForm } from '@angular/forms';
    
    @Component({
      // ...
    })
    export class SignUpFormComponent {
      username: string = generateUniqueUserID();
      email = '';
    
      register(form: NgForm) {
        console.log(form.value.username);
        console.log(this.username);
        // ...
      }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Validating Template-Driven Forms

### Validation

Using the template-driven approach, form validation is a matter of
following HTML5 practices:

```javascript
    <!-- a required field -->
    <input type="text" required>
    
    <!-- an optional field of a specific length -->
    <input type="text" pattern=".{3,8}">
    
    <!-- a non-optional field of specific length -->
    <input type="text" pattern=".{3,8}" required>
    
    <!-- alphanumeric field of specific length -->
    <input type="text" pattern="[A-Za-z0-9]{0,5}">
```

Note that the `pattern` attribute is a less-powerful version of
JavaScript's RegEx syntax.

There are other HTML5 attributes which can be learned and applied to
various types of input; however in most cases they act as upper and
lower limits, preventing extra information from being added or removed.

```javascript
    <!-- a field which will accept no more than 5 characters -->
    <input type="text" maxlength="5">
```

You can use one or both of these methods when writing a template-driven
form. Focus on the user experience: in some cases, it makes sense to
prevent accidental entry, and in others it makes sense to allow
unrestricted entry but provide something like a counter to show
limitations.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Reactive/Model-Driven Forms

While using directives in our templates gives us the power of rapid
prototyping without too much boilerplate, we are restricted in what we
can do. Reactive forms on the other hand, lets us define our form
through code and gives us much more flexibility and control over data
validation.

There is a little bit of magic in its simplicity at first, but after
you're comfortable with the basics, learning its building blocks will
allow you to handle more complex use cases.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Reactive Forms Basics

To begin, we must first ensure we are working with the right directives
and the right classes in order to take advantage of procedural forms.
For this, we need to ensure that the `ReactiveFormsModule` was imported
in the bootstrap phase of the application module.

This will give us access to components, directives and providers like
`FormBuilder`, `FormGroup`, and `FormControl`

In our case, to build a login form, we're looking at something like the
following:

*app/login-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { FormGroup, FormControl, FormBuilder } from '@angular/forms';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      templateUrl: 'app/app.component.html'
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      username = new FormControl('')
      password = new FormControl('')
    
      loginForm: FormGroup = this.builder.group({
        username: this.username,
        password: this.password
      });
    
      constructor(private builder: FormBuilder) { }
    
      login() {
        console.log(this.loginForm.value);
        // Attempt Logging in...
      }
    }
```

*app/login-form.component.html*

```javascript
    <form [formGroup]="loginForm" (ngSubmit)="login()">
      <label for="username">username</label>
      <input type="text" name="username" id="username" [formControl]="username">
      <br>
    
      <label for="password">password</label>
      <input type="password" name="password" id="password" [formControl]="password">
      <br>
    
      <button type="submit">log in</button>
    </form>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-073-reactive-form-basics)

### `FormControl`

Note that the `FormControl` class is assigned to similarly named fields,
both on `this` and in the `FormBuilder#group({ })` method. This is
mostly for ease of access. By saving references to the `FormControl`
instances on `this`, you can access the inputs in the template without
having to reference the form itself. The form fields can otherwise be
reached in the template by using `loginForm.controls.username` and
`loginForm.controls.password`. Likewise, any instance of `FormControl`
in this situation can access its parent group by using its `.root`
property (e.g. `username.root.controls.password`).

> Make sure that `root` and `controls` exist before they're used.

A `FormControl` requires two properties: an initial value and a list of
validators. Right now, we have no validation. This will be added in the
next steps.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Validating Reactive Forms

Building from the previous login form, we can quickly and easily add
validation.

Angular provides many validators out of the box. They can be imported
along with the rest of dependencies for procedural forms.

*app/login-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { Validators, FormBuilder, FormControl } from '@angular/forms';
    
    @Component({
      // ...
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      username = new FormControl('', [
        Validators.required,
        Validators.minLength(5)
      ]);
    
      password = new FormControl('', [Validators.required]);
    
      loginForm: FormGroup = this.builder.group({
        username: this.username,
        password: this.password
      });
    
      constructor(private builder: FormBuilder) { }
    
      login () {
        console.log(this.loginForm.value);
        // Attempt Logging in...
      }
    }
```

*app/login-form.component.html*

```javascript
    <form [formGroup]="loginForm" (ngSubmit)="login()">
    
      <div>
        <label for="username">username</label>
    
        <input
          type="text"
          name="username"
          id="username"
          [formControl]="username">
    
        <div [hidden]="username.valid || username.untouched">
          <div>
            The following problems have been found with the username:
          </div>
    
          <div [hidden]="!username.hasError('minlength')">
            Username can not be shorter than 5 characters.
          </div>
          <div [hidden]="!username.hasError('required')">
            Username is required.
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div >
        <label for="password">password</label>
        <input
          type="password"
          name="password"
          id="password" [formControl]="password">
    
        <div [hidden]="password.valid || password.untouched">
          <div>
            The following problems have been found with the password:
          </div>
    
          <div [hidden]="!password.hasError('required')">
            The password is required.
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    
      <button type="submit" [disabled]="!loginForm.valid">Log In</button>
    </form>
```

Note that we have added rather robust validation on both the fields and
the form itself, using nothing more than built-in validators and some
template logic.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-074-validating-reactive-forms)

We are using `.valid` and `.untouched` to determine if we need to show
errors - while the field is required, there is no reason to tell the
user that the value is wrong if the field hasn't been visited yet.

For built-in validation, we are calling `.hasError()` on the form
element, and we are passing a string which represents the validator
function we included. The error message only displays if this test
returns true.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Reactive Forms Custom Validation

As useful as the built-in validators are, it is very useful to be able
to include your own. Angular allows you to do just that, with minimal
effort.

Let's assume we are using the same Login Form, but now we also want to
test that our password has an exclamation mark somewhere in it.

*app/login-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    function hasExclamationMark(input: FormControl) {
      const hasExclamation = input.value.indexOf('!') >= 0;
      return hasExclamation ? null : { needsExclamation: true };
    }
    
    password = new FormControl('', [
      Validators.required,
      hasExclamationMark
    ]);
```

A simple function takes the `FormControl` instance and returns null if
everything is fine. If the test fails, it returns an object with an
arbitrarily named property. The property name is what will be used for
the `.hasError()` test.

*app/login-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    <!-- ... -->
    <div [hidden]="!password.hasError('needsExclamation')">
      Your password must have an exclamation mark!
    </div>
    <!-- ... -->
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-075-reactive-forms-custom-validation)

### Predefined Parameters

Having a custom validator to check for exclamation marks might be
helpful, but what if you need to check for some other form of
punctuation? It might be overkill to write nearly the same thing over
and over again.

Consider the earlier example `Validators.minLength(5)`. How did they get
away with allowing an argument to control the length, if a validator is
just a function? Simple, really. It's not a trick of Angular, or
TypeScript - it's simple JavaScript closures.

```javascript
    function minLength(minimum) {
      return function(input) {
        return input.value.length >= minimum ? null : { minLength: true };
      };
    }
```

Assume you have a function which takes a "minimum" parameter and returns
another function. The function defined and returned from the inside
becomes the validator. The closure reference allows you to remember the
value of the minimum when the validator is eventually called.

Let's apply that thinking back to a `PunctuationValidator`.

*app/login-form.component.ts*

```javascript
    function hasPunctuation(punctuation: string, errorType: string) {
      return function(input: FormControl) {
        return input.value.indexOf(punctuation) >= 0 ?
            null :
            { [errorType]: true };
      };
    }
    
    // ...
    
    password = new FormControl('', [
      Validators.required,
      hasPunctuation('&', 'ampersandRequired')
    ]);
```

*app/login-form.component.html*

```javascript
    <!-- ... -->
    <div [hidden]="!password.hasError('ampersandRequired')">
      You must have an &amp; in your password.
    </div>
    <!-- ... -->
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-076-formbuilder-predefined-validation)

### Validating Inputs Using Other Inputs

Keep in mind what was mentioned earlier: inputs have access to their
parent context via `.root`. Therefore, complex validation can happen by
drilling through the form, via root.

```javascript
    function duplicatePassword(input: FormControl) {
      if (!input.root || !input.root.controls) {
        return null;
      }
    
      const exactMatch = input.root.controls.password === input.value;
      return exactMatch ? null : { mismatchedPassword: true };
    }
    
    // ...
    
    this.duplicatePassword = new FormControl('', [
      Validators.required,
      duplicatePassword
    ]);
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-077-formbuilder-validating-other-inputs)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Visual Cues for Users

HTML5 provides `:invalid` and `:valid` pseudo-selectors for its input
fields.

```javascript
    input[type="text"]:valid {
      border: 2px solid green;
    }
    
    input[type="text"]:invalid {
      border: 2px solid red;
    }
```

Unfortunately, this system is rather unsophisticated and would require
more manual effort in order to work with complex forms or user behavior.

Rather than writing extra code, and creating and enforcing your own CSS
classes, to manage these behaviors, Angular provides you with several
classes, already accessible on your inputs.

```javascript
    /* field value is valid */
    .ng-valid {}
    
    /* field value is invalid */
    .ng-invalid {}
    
    /* field has not been clicked in, tapped on, or tabbed over */
    .ng-untouched {}
    
    /* field has been previously entered */
    .ng-touched {}
    
    /* field value is unchanged from the default value */
    .ng-pristine {}
    
    /* field value has been modified from the default */
    .ng-dirty {}
```

Note the three pairs:

  - valid / invalid
  - untouched / touched
  - pristine / dirty

These pairs can be used in many combinations in your CSS to change style
based on the three separate flags they represent. Angular will toggle
between the pairs on each input as the state of the input changes.

```javascript
    /* field has been unvisited and unchanged */
    input.ng-untouched.ng-pristine {}
    
    /* field has been previously visited, and is invalid */
    input.ng-touched.ng-invalid {}
```

> `.ng-untouched` will not be replaced by `.ng-touched` until the user
> *leaves* the input for the first time

For templating purposes, Angular also gives you access to the unprefixed
properties on the input, in both code and template:

```javascript
    <input name="myInput" [formControl]="myCustomInput">
    <div [hidden]="myCustomInput.pristine">I've been changed</div>
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# What is an Angular Module?

In Angular, a module is a mechanism to group components, directives,
pipes and services that are related, in such a way that can be combined
with other modules to create an application. An Angular application can
be thought of as a puzzle where each piece (or each module) is needed to
be able to see the full picture.

Another analogy to understand Angular modules is classes. In a class, we
can define public or private methods. The public methods are the API
that other parts of our code can use to interact with it while the
private methods are implementation details that are hidden. In the same
way, a module can export or hide components, directives, pipes and
services. The exported elements are meant to be used by other modules,
while the ones that are not exported (hidden) are just used inside the
module itself and cannot be directly accessed by other modules of our
application.

## A Basic Use of Modules

To be able to define modules we have to use the decorator `NgModule`.

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [ ... ],
      declarations: [ ... ],
      bootstrap: [ ... ]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

In the example above, we have turned the class `AppModule` into an
Angular module just by using the `NgModule` decorator. The `NgModule`
decorator requires at least three properties: `imports`, `declarations`
and `bootstrap`.

The property `imports` expects an array of modules. Here's where we
define the pieces of our puzzle (our application). The property
`declarations` expects an array of components, directives and pipes that
are part of the module. The `bootstrap` property is where we define the
root component of our module. Even though this property is also an
array, 99% of the time we are going to define only one component.

> There are very special circumstances where more than one component may
> be required to bootstrap a module but we are not going to cover those
> edge cases here.

Here's how a basic module made up of just one component would look like:

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: '<h1>My Angular App</h1>'
    })
    export class AppComponent {}
```

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [BrowserModule],
      declarations: [AppComponent],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

The file *app.component.ts* is just a "hello world" component, nothing
interesting there. In the other hand, the file *app.module.ts* is
following the structure that we've seen before for defining a module but
in this case, we are defining the modules and components that we are
going to be using.

The first thing that we notice is that our module is importing the
`BrowserModule` as an explicit dependency. The `BrowserModule` is a
built-in module that exports basic directives, pipes and services.
Unlike previous versions of Angular, we have to explicitly import those
dependencies to be able to use directives like `*ngFor` or `*ngIf` in
our templates.

Given that the root (and only) component of our module is the
`AppComponent` we have to list it in the `bootstrap` array. Because in
the `declarations` property we are supposed to define **all** the
components or pipes that make up our application, we have to define the
`AppComponent` again there too.

Before moving on, there's an important clarification to make. **There
are two types of modules, root modules and feature modules**.

In the same way that in a module we have one root component and many
possible secondary components, **in an application we only have one root
module and zero or many feature modules**. To be able to bootstrap our
application, Angular needs to know which one is the root module. An easy
way to identify a root module is by looking at the `imports` property of
its `NgModule` decorator. If the module is importing the `BrowserModule`
then it's a root module, if instead is importing the `CommonModule` then
it is a feature module.

> As developers, we need to take care of importing the `BrowserModule`
> in the root module and instead, import the `CommonModule` in any other
> module we create for the same application. Failing to do so might
> result in problems when working with lazy loaded modules as we are
> going to see in following sections.

By convention, the root module should always be named `AppModule`.

## Bootstrapping an Application

To bootstrap our module based application, we need to inform Angular
which one is our root module to perform the compilation in the browser.
This compilation in the browser is also known as "Just in Time" (JIT)
compilation.

*main.ts*

```javascript
    import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';
    import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
    
    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);
```

> It is also possible to perform the compilation as a build step of our
> workflow. This method is called "Ahead of Time" (AOT) compilation and
> will require a slightly different bootstrap process that we are going
> to discuss in another section.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-078-bootstrapping-application)

In the next section we are going to see how to create a module with
multiple components, services and pipes.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Adding Components, Pipes and Services to a Module

In the previous section, we learned how to create a module with just one
component but we know that is hardly the case. Our modules are usually
made up of multiple components, services, directives and pipes. In this
chapter we are going to extend the example we had before with a custom
component, pipe and service.

Let's start by defining a new component that we are going to use to show
credit card information.

*credit-card.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
    import { CreditCardService } from './credit-card.service';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-credit-card',
      template: `
        <p>Your credit card is: {{ creditCardNumber | creditCardMask }}</p>
      `
    })
    export class CreditCardComponent implements OnInit {
      creditCardNumber: string;
    
      constructor(private creditCardService: CreditCardService) {}
    
      ngOnInit() {
        this.creditCardNumber = this.creditCardService.getCreditCard();
      }
    }
```

This component is relying on the `CreditCardService` to get the credit
card number, and on the pipe `creditCardMask` to mask the number except
the last 4 digits that are going to be visible.

*credit-card.service.ts*

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CreditCardService {
      getCreditCard(): string {
        return '2131313133123174098';
      }
    }
```

*credit-card-mask.pipe.ts*

```javascript
    import { Pipe, PipeTransform } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Pipe({
      name: 'creditCardMask'
    })
    export class CreditCardMaskPipe implements PipeTransform {
      transform(plainCreditCard: string): string {
        const visibleDigits = 4;
        let maskedSection = plainCreditCard.slice(0, -visibleDigits);
        let visibleSection = plainCreditCard.slice(-visibleDigits);
        return maskedSection.replace(/./g, '*') + visibleSection;
      }
    }
```

With everything in place, we can now use the `CreditCardComponent` in
our root component.

*app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from "@angular/core";
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <h1>My Angular App</h1>
        <app-credit-card></app-credit-card>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {}
```

Of course, to be able to use this new component, pipe and service, we
need to update our module, otherwise Angular is not going to be able to
compile our application.

*app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    
    import { CreditCardMaskPipe } from './credit-card-mask.pipe';
    import { CreditCardService } from './credit-card.service';
    import { CreditCardComponent } from './credit-card.component';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [BrowserModule],
      providers: [CreditCardService],
      declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        CreditCardMaskPipe,
        CreditCardComponent
      ],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

Notice that we have added the component `CreditCardComponent` and the
pipe `CreditCardMaskPipe` to the `declarations` property, along with the
root component of the module `AppComponent`. In the other hand, our
custom service is configured with the dependency injection system with
the `providers` property.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-079-adding-components)

Be aware that this method of defining a service in the `providers`
property **should only be used in the root module**. Doing this in a
feature module is going to cause unintended consequences when working
with lazy loaded modules.

In the next section, we are going to see how to safely define services
in feature modules.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating a Feature Module

When our root module start growing, it starts to be evident that some
elements (components, directives, etc.) are related in a way that almost
feel like they belong to a library that can be "plugged in".

In our previous example, we started to see that. Our root module has a
component, a pipe and a service that its only purpose is to deal with
credit cards. What if we extract these three elements to their own
**feature module** and then we import it into our **root module**?

We are going to do just that. The first step is to create two folders to
differentiate the elements that belong to the root module from the
elements that belong to the feature module.

```javascript
    .
    ├── app
    │   ├── app.component.ts
    │   └── app.module.ts
    ├── credit-card
    │   ├── credit-card-mask.pipe.ts
    │   ├── credit-card.component.ts
    │   ├── credit-card.module.ts
    │   └── credit-card.service.ts
    ├── index.html
    └── main.ts
```

Notice how each folder has its own module file: *app.module.ts* and
*credit-card.module.ts*. Let's focus on the latter first.

*credit-card/credit-card.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';
    
    import { CreditCardMaskPipe } from './credit-card-mask.pipe';
    import { CreditCardService } from './credit-card.service';
    import { CreditCardComponent } from './credit-card.component';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [CommonModule],
      declarations: [
        CreditCardMaskPipe,
        CreditCardComponent
      ],
      providers: [CreditCardService],
      exports: [CreditCardComponent]
    })
    export class CreditCardModule {}
```

Our feature `CreditCardModule` it's pretty similar to the root
`AppModule` with a few important differences:

  - We are not importing the `BrowserModule` but the `CommonModule`. If
    we see the documentation of the `BrowserModule`
    [here](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/platform-browser/index/BrowserModule-class.html),
    we can see that it's re-exporting the `CommonModule` with a lot of
    other services that helps with rendering an Angular application in
    the browser. These services are coupling our root module with a
    particular platform (the browser), but we want our feature modules
    to be platform independent. That's why we only import the
    `CommonModule` there, which only exports common directives and
    pipes.

> When it comes to components, pipes and directives, every module should
> import its own dependencies disregarding if the same dependencies were
> imported in the root module or in any other feature module. In short,
> even when having multiple feature modules, each one of them needs to
> import the `CommonModule`.

  - We are using a new property called `exports`. Every element defined
    in the `declarations` array is **private by default**. We should
    only export whatever the other modules in our application need to
    perform its job. In our case, we only need to make the
    `CreditCardComponent` visible because it's being used in the
    template of the `AppComponent`.

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    @Component({
      ...
      template: `
        ...
        <app-credit-card></app-credit-card>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {}
```

> We are keeping the `CreditCardMaskPipe` private because it's only
> being used inside the `CreditCardModule` and no other module should
> use it directly.

We can now import this feature module into our simplified root module.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    
    import { CreditCardModule } from '../credit-card/credit-card.module';
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        CreditCardModule
      ],
      declarations: [AppComponent],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

At this point we are done and our application behaves as expected.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-080-creating-feature-module)

## Services and Lazy Loaded Modules

Here's the tricky part of Angular modules. While components, pipes and
directives are scoped to its modules unless explicitly exported,
services are globally available unless the module is lazy loaded.

It's hard to understand that at first so let's try to see what's
happening with the `CreditCardService` in our example. Notice first that
the service is not in the `exports` array but in the `providers` array.
With this configuration, our service is going to be available
everywhere, even in the `AppComponent` which lives in another module.
So, even when using modules, there's no way to have a "private" service
unless... the module is being lazy loaded.

When a module is lazy loaded, Angular is going to create a child
injector (which is a child of the root injector from the root module)
and will create an instance of our service there.

Imagine for a moment that our `CreditCardModule` is configured to be
lazy loaded. With our current configuration, when the application is
bootstrapped and our root module is loaded in memory, an instance of the
`CreditCardService` (a singleton) is going to be added to the root
injector. But, when the `CreditCardModule` is lazy loaded sometime in
the future, a child injector will be created for that module **with a
new instance** of the `CreditCardService`. At this point we have a
hierarchical injector with **two instances** of the same service, which
is not usually what we want.

Think for example of a service that does the authentication. We want to
have only one singleton in the entire application, disregarding if our
modules are being loaded at bootstrap or lazy loaded. So, in order to
have our feature module's service **only** added to the root injector,
we need to use a different approach.

*credit-card/credit-card.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule, ModuleWithProviders } from '@angular/core';
    /* ...other imports... */
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [CommonModule],
      declarations: [
        CreditCardMaskPipe,
        CreditCardComponent
      ],
      exports: [CreditCardComponent]
    })
    export class CreditCardModule {
      static forRoot(): ModuleWithProviders {
        return {
          ngModule: CreditCardModule,
          providers: [CreditCardService]
        }
      }
    }
```

Different than before, we are not putting our service directly in the
property `providers` of the `NgModule` decorator. This time we are
defining a static method called `forRoot` where we define the module
**and** the service we want to export.

With this new syntax, our root module is slightly different.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    /* ...imports... */
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        CreditCardModule.forRoot()
      ],
      declarations: [AppComponent],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

Can you spot the difference? We are not importing the `CreditCardModule`
directly, instead what we are importing is the object returned from the
`forRoot` method, which includes the `CreditCardService`. Although this
syntax is a little more convoluted than the original, it will guarantee
us that only one instance of the `CreditCardService` is added to the
root module. When the `CreditCardModule` is loaded (even lazy loaded),
no new instance of that service is going to be added to the child
injector.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-081-creating-feature-module-2)

As a rule of thumb, **always use the `forRoot` syntax when exporting
services from feature modules**, unless you have a very special need
that requires multiple instances at different levels of the dependency
injection tree.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Directive Duplications

Because we no longer define every component and directive directly in
every component that needs it, we need to be aware of how Angular
modules handle directives and components that target the same element
(have the same selector).

Let's assume for a moment that by mistake, we have created two
directives that target the same property:

> This example is a variation of the code found in the [official
> documentation](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/ngmodule.html#!#resolve-conflicts).

*blue-highlight.directive.ts*

```javascript
    import { Directive, ElementRef, Renderer } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appHighlight]'
    })
    export class BlueHighlightDirective {
      constructor(renderer: Renderer, el: ElementRef) {
        renderer.setElementStyle(el.nativeElement, 'backgroundColor', 'blue');
        renderer.setElementStyle(el.nativeElement, 'color', 'gray');
      }
    }
```

*yellow-highlight.directive.ts*

```javascript
    import { Directive, ElementRef, Renderer } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Directive({
      selector: '[appHighlight]'
    })
    export class YellowHighlightDirective {
      constructor(renderer: Renderer, el: ElementRef) {
        renderer.setElementStyle(el.nativeElement, 'backgroundColor', 'yellow');
      }
    }
```

These two directives are similar, they are trying to style an element.
The `BlueHighlightDirective` will try to set the background color of the
element to blue while changing the color of the text to gray, while the
`YellowHighlightDirective` will try only to change the background color
to yellow. Notice that both are targeting any HTML element that has the
property `appHighlight`. What would happen if we add both directives to
the same module?

*app.module.ts*

```javascript
    // Imports
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [BrowserModule],
      declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        BlueHighlightDirective,
        YellowHighlightDirective
      ],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

Let's see how we would use it in the only component of the module.

*app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: '<h1 appHighlight>My Angular App</h1>'
    })
    export class AppComponent {}
```

We can see that in the template of our component, we are using the
directive `appHighlight` in our `h1` element but, which styles are going
to end up being applied?

The answer is: the text is going to be gray and the background yellow.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-082-directive-duplications)

We are allowed to define multiple directives that target the same
elements in the same module. What's going to happen is that Angular is
going to do every transformation **in order**.

```javascript
    declarations: [
      ...,
      BlueHighlightDirective,
      YellowHighlightDirective
    ]
```

Because we have defined both directives in an array, and **arrays are
ordered collection of items**, when the compiler finds an element with
the property `appHighlight`, it will first apply the transformations of
`BlueHighlightDirective`, setting the text gray and the background blue,
and then will apply the transformations of `YellowHighlightDirective`,
changing again the background color to yellow.

In summary, **when two or more directives target the same element, they
are going to be applied in the order they were defined**.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Lazy Loading a Module

Another advantage of using modules to group related pieces of
functionality of our application is the ability to load those pieces on
demand. Lazy loading modules helps us decrease the startup time. With
lazy loading our application does not need to load everything at once,
it only needs to load what the user expects to see when the app first
loads. Modules that are lazily loaded will only be loaded when the user
navigates to their routes.

To show this relationship, let's start by defining a simple module that
will act as the root module of our example application.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { BrowserModule  } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    import { EagerComponent } from './eager.component';
    import { routing } from './app.routing';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        routing
      ],
      declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        EagerComponent
      ],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule {}
```

So far this is a very common module that relies on the `BrowserModule`,
has a `routing` mechanism and two components: `AppComponent` and
`EagerComponent`. For now, let's focus on the root component of our
application (`AppComponent`) where the navigation is defined.

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      template: `
        <h1>My App</h1>
        <nav>
          <a routerLink="eager">Eager</a>
          <a routerLink="lazy">Lazy</a>
        </nav>
        <router-outlet></router-outlet>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {}
```

Our navigation system has only two paths: `eager` and `lazy`. To know
what those paths are loading when clicking on them we need to take a
look at the `routing` object that we passed to the root module.

*app/app.routing.ts*

```javascript
    import { ModuleWithProviders } from '@angular/core';
    import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';
    
    import { EagerComponent } from './eager.component';
    
    const routes: Routes = [
      { path: '', redirectTo: 'eager', pathMatch: 'full' },
      { path: 'eager', component: EagerComponent },
      { path: 'lazy', loadChildren: 'lazy/lazy.module#LazyModule' }
    ];
    
    export const routing: ModuleWithProviders = RouterModule.forRoot(routes);
```

Here we can see that the default path in our application is called
`eager` which will load `EagerComponent`.

*app/eager.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      template: '<p>Eager Component</p>'
    })
    export class EagerComponent {}
```

But more importantly, we can see that whenever we try to go to the path
`lazy`, we are going to lazy load a module conveniently called
`LazyModule`. Look closely at the definition of that route:

```javascript
    { path: 'lazy', loadChildren: 'lazy/lazy.module#LazyModule' }
```

There's a few important things to notice here:

1.  We use the property `loadChildren` instead of `component`.
2.  We pass a string instead of a symbol to avoid loading the module
    eagerly.
3.  We define not only the path to the module but the name of the class
    as well.

There's nothing special about `LazyModule` other than it has its own
`routing` and a component called `LazyComponent`.

*app/lazy/lazy.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    
    import { LazyComponent }   from './lazy.component';
    import { routing } from './lazy.routing';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [routing],
      declarations: [LazyComponent]
    })
    export class LazyModule {}
```

> If we define the class `LazyModule` as the `default` export of the
> file, we don't need to define the class name in the `loadChildren`
> property as shown above.

The `routing` object is very simple and only defines the default
component to load when navigating to the `lazy` path.

*app/lazy/lazy.routing.ts*

```javascript
    import { ModuleWithProviders } from '@angular/core';
    import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';
    
    import { LazyComponent } from './lazy.component';
    
    const routes: Routes = [
      { path: '', component: LazyComponent }
    ];
    
    export const routing: ModuleWithProviders = RouterModule.forChild(routes);
```

Notice that we use the method call `forChild` instead of `forRoot` to
create the routing object. We should always do that when creating a
routing object for a feature module, no matter if the module is supposed
to be eagerly or lazily loaded.

Finally, our `LazyComponent` is very similar to `EagerComponent` and is
just a placeholder for some text.

*app/lazy/lazy.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      template: '<p>Lazy Component</p>'
    })
    export class LazyComponent {}
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-083-lazy-loading-module)

When we load our application for the first time, the `AppModule` along
the `AppComponent` will be loaded in the browser and we should see the
navigation system and the text "Eager Component". Until this point, the
`LazyModule` has not being downloaded, only when we click the link
"Lazy" the needed code will be downloaded and we will see the message
"Lazy Component" in the browser.

We have effectively lazily loaded a module.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Lazy Loading and the Dependency Injection Tree

Lazy loaded modules create their own branch on the Dependency Injection
(DI) tree. This means that it's possible to have services that belong to
a lazy loaded module, that are not accessible by the root module or any
other eagerly loaded module of our application.

To show this behaviour, let's continue with the example of the previous
section and add a `CounterService` to our `LazyModule`.

*app/lazy/lazy.module.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    import { CounterService } from './counter.service';
    
    @NgModule({
      ...
      providers: [CounterService]
    })
    export class LazyModule {}
```

Here we added the `CounterService` to the `providers` array. Our
`CounterService` is a simple class that holds a reference to a `counter`
property.

*app/lazy/counter.service.ts*

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CounterService {
      counter = 0;
    }
```

We can modify the `LazyComponent` to use this service with a button to
increment the `counter` property.

*app/lazy/lazy.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    import { CounterService } from './counter.service';
    
    @Component({
      template: `
        <p>Lazy Component</p>
        <button (click)="increaseCounter()">Increase Counter</button>
        <p>Counter: {{ counterService.counter }}</p>
      `
    })
    export class LazyComponent {
    
      constructor(public counterService: CounterService) {}
    
      increaseCounter() {
        this.counterService.counter += 1;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-084-lazy-loading-module-2)

The service is working. If we increment the counter and then navigate
back and forth between the `eager` and the `lazy` routes, the `counter`
value will persist in the lazy loaded module.

But the question is, how can we verify that the service is isolated and
cannot be used in a component that belongs to a different module? Let's
try to use the same service in the `EagerComponent`.

*app/eager.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { CounterService } from './lazy/counter.service';
    
    @Component({
      template: `
        <p>Eager Component</p>
        <button (click)="increaseCounter()">Increase Counter</button>
        <p>Counter: {{ counterService.counter }}</p>
      `
    })
    export class EagerComponent {
      constructor(public counterService: CounterService) {}
    
      increaseCounter() {
        this.counterService.counter += 1;
      }
    }
```

If we try to run this new version of our code, we are going to get an
error message in the browser console:

```javascript
    No provider for CounterService!
```

What this error tells us is that the `AppModule`, where the
`EagerComponent` is defined, has no knowledge of a service called
`CounterService`. `CounterService` lives in a different branch of the DI
tree created for `LazyModule` when it was lazy loaded in the browser.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Shared Modules and Dependency Injection

Now that we have proven that lazy loaded modules create their own branch
on the Dependency Injection tree, we need to learn how to deal with
services that are imported by means of a shared module in both an eager
and lazy loaded module.

Let's create a new module called `SharedModule` and define the
`CounterService` there.

*app/shared/shared.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { CounterService } from './counter.service';
    
    @NgModule({
      providers: [CounterService]
    })
    export class SharedModule {}
```

Now we are going to import that `SharedModule` in the `AppModule` and
the `LazyModule`.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    import { SharedModule } from './shared/shared.module';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        SharedModule,
        ...
      ],
      declarations: [
        EagerComponent,
        ...
      ]
      ...
    })
    export class AppModule {}
```

*app/lazy/lazy.module.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    import { SharedModule } from '../shared/shared.module';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        SharedModule,
        ...
      ],
      declarations: [LazyComponent]
    })
    export class LazyModule {}
```

With this configuration, the components of both modules will have access
to the `CounterService`. We are going to use this service in
`EagerComponent` and `LazyComponent` in exactly the same way. Just a
button to increase the internal `counter` property of the service.

*app/eager.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { CounterService } from './shared/counter.service';
    
    @Component({
      template: `
        <p>Eager Component</p>
        <button (click)="increaseCounter()">Increase Counter</button>
        <p>Counter: {{ counterService.counter }}</p>
      `
    })
    export class EagerComponent {
      constructor(public counterService: CounterService) {}
    
      increaseCounter() {
        this.counterService.counter += 1;
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-085-shared-module)

If you play with the live example, you will notice that the `counter`
seems to behave independently in `EagerComponent` and `LazyComponent`,
we can increase the value of one counter without altering the other one.
In other words, we have ended up with two instances of the
`CounterService`, one that lives in the root of the DI tree of the
`AppModule` and another that lives in a lower branch of the DI tree
accessible by the `LazyModule`.

This is not neccessarily wrong, you may find situations where you could
need different instances of the same service, but I bet most of the time
that's not what you want. Think for example of an authentication
service, you need to have the same instance with the same information
available everywhere disregarding if we are using the service in an
eagerly or lazy loaded module.

In the next section we are going to learn how to have only one instance
of a shared service.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Sharing the Same Dependency Injection Tree

So far our problem is that we are creating two instances of the same
services in different levels of the DI tree. The instance created in the
lower branch of the tree is shadowing the one defined at the root level.
The solution? To avoid creating a second instance in a lower level of
the DI tree for the lazy loaded module and only use the service instance
registered at the root of the tree.

To accomplish that, we need to modify the definition of the
`SharedModule` and instead of defining our service in the `providers`
property, we need to create a static method called `forRoot` that
exports the service along with the module itself.

*app/shared/shared.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule, ModuleWithProviders } from '@angular/core';
    import { CounterService } from './counter.service';
    
    @NgModule({})
    export class SharedModule {
      static forRoot(): ModuleWithProviders {
        return {
          ngModule: SharedModule,
          providers: [CounterService]
        };
      }
    }
```

With this setup, we can import this module in our root module
`AppModule` calling the `forRoot` method to register the module and the
service.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    import { SharedModule } from './shared/shared.module';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        SharedModule.forRoot(),
        ...
      ],
      ...
    })
    export class AppModule {}
```

We should **only** call `forRoot` in the root application module and no
where else. This ensures that only a single instance of your service
exists at the root level. Calling `forRoot` in another module can
register the service again in a different level of the DI tree.

Since `SharedModule` only consists of a service that Angular registers
in the root app injector, we do not need to import it in `LazyModule`.
This is because the lazy loaded module will already have access to
services defined at the root level.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-086-shared-module-2)

This time, whenever we change the value of the `counter` property, this
value is shared between the `EagerComponent` and the `LazyComponent`
proving that we are using the same instance of the `CounterService`.

However it is very likely that we may have a component, pipe or
directive defined in `SharedModule` that we'll need in another module.
Take the following for example.

*app/shared/shared.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule, ModuleWithProviders } from '@angular/core';
    import { CounterService } from './counter.service';
    
    import { HighlightDirective } from './highlight.directive';
    
    @NgModule({
      declarations: [HighlightDirective],
      exports: [ HighlightDirective ]
    })
    export class SharedModule {
      static forRoot(): ModuleWithProviders {
        return {
          ngModule: SharedModule,
          providers: [CounterService]
        };
      }
    }
```

In here, we declare and export `HighlightDirective` so other modules
that import `SharedModule` can use it in their templates. This means we
can just import the module in `LazyModule` normally.

*app/lazy/lazy.module.ts*

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    
    import { SharedModule } from '../shared/shared.module';
    
    import { LazyComponent }   from './lazy.component';
    import { routing } from './lazy.routing';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        SharedModule,
        routing
      ],
      declarations: [LazyComponent]
    })
    export class LazyModule {}
```

Now we can use this directive within `LazyModule` without creating
another instance of `CounterService`.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-087-shared-module-3)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Why Routing?

Routing allows us to express some aspects of the application's state in
the URL. Unlike with server-side front-end solutions, this is optional -
we can build the full application without ever changing the URL. Adding
routing, however, allows the user to go straight into certain aspects of
the application. This is very convenient as it can keep your application
linkable and bookmarkable and allow users to share links with others.

Routing allows you to:

  - Maintain the state of the application
  - Implement modular applications
  - Implement the application based on the roles (certain roles have
    access to certain URLs)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Configuring Routes

## Base URL Tag

The Base URL tag must be set within the `<head>` tag of index.html:

```javascript
    <base href="/">
```

> In the demos we use a script tag to set the base tag. In a real
> application it must be set as above.

## Route Definition Object

The `Routes` type is an array of routes that defines the routing for the
application. This is where we can set up the expected paths, the
components we want to use and what we want our application to understand
them as.

Each route can have different attributes; some of the common attributes
are:

  - *path* - URL to be shown in the browser when application is on the
    specific route
  - *component* - component to be rendered when the application is on
    the specific route
  - *redirectTo* - redirect route if needed; each route can have either
    component or redirect attribute defined in the route (covered later
    in this chapter)
  - *pathMatch* - optional property that defaults to 'prefix';
    determines whether to match full URLs or just the beginning. When
    defining a route with empty path string set pathMatch to 'full',
    otherwise it will match all paths.
  - *children* - array of route definitions objects representing the
    child routes of this route (covered later in this chapter).

To use `Routes`, create an array of [route
configurations](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/index/Route-interface.html).

Below is the sample `Routes` array definition:

```javascript
    const routes: Routes = [
      { path: 'component-one', component: ComponentOne },
      { path: 'component-two', component: ComponentTwo }
    ];
```

[See Routes
definition](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/index/Routes-type-alias.html)

## RouterModule

`RouterModule.forRoot` takes the `Routes` array as an argument and
returns a *configured* router module. The following sample shows how we
import this module in an `app.routes.ts` file.

*app/app.routes.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    import { RouterModule, Routes } from '@angular/router';
    
    const routes: Routes = [
      { path: 'component-one', component: ComponentOne },
      { path: 'component-two', component: ComponentTwo }
    ];
    
    export const routing = RouterModule.forRoot(routes);
```

We then import our routing configuration in the root of our application.

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    ...
    import { routing } from './app.routes';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        routing
      ],
      declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        ComponentOne,
        ComponentTwo
      ],
      bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Redirecting the Router to Another Route

When your application starts, it navigates to the empty route by
default. We can configure the router to redirect to a named route by
default:

```javascript
    export const routes: Routes = [
      { path: '', redirectTo: 'component-one', pathMatch: 'full' },
      { path: 'component-one', component: ComponentOne },
      { path: 'component-two', component: ComponentTwo }
    ];
```

The `pathMatch` property, which is required for redirects, tells the
router how it should match the URL provided in order to redirect to the
specified route. Since `pathMatch: full` is provided, the router will
redirect to `component-one` if the entire URL matches the empty path
('').

When starting the application, it will now automatically navigate to the
route for `component-one`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Defining Links Between Routes

## RouterLink

Add links to routes using the `RouterLink` directive.

For example the following code defines a link to the route at path
`component-one`.

```javascript
    <a routerLink="/component-one">Component One</a>
```

## Navigating Programmatically

Alternatively, you can navigate to a route by calling the `navigate`
function on the router:

```javascript
    this.router.navigate(['/component-one']);
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Dynamically Adding Route Components

Rather than define each route's component separately, use `RouterOutlet`
which serves as a component placeholder; Angular dynamically adds the
component for the route being activated into the
`<router-outlet></router-outlet>` element.

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app',
      template: `
        <nav>
          <a routerLink="/component-one">Component One</a>
          <a routerLink="/component-two">Component Two</a>
        </nav>
    
        <router-outlet></router-outlet>
        <!-- Route components are added by router here -->
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {}
```

In the above example, the component corresponding to the route specified
will be placed after the `<router-outlet></router-outlet>` element when
the link is clicked.

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-088-route-components)

> View examples running in full screen mode to see route changes in the
> URL.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Route Parameters

Say we are creating an application that displays a product list. When
the user clicks on a product in the list, we want to display a page
showing the detailed information about that product. To do this you
must:

  - add a route parameter ID
  - link the route to the parameter
  - add the service that reads the parameter.

## Declaring Route Parameters

The route for the component that displays the details for a specific
product would need a route parameter for the ID of that product. We
could implement this using the following `Routes`:

```javascript
    export const routes: Routes = [
      { path: '', redirectTo: 'product-list', pathMatch: 'full' },
      { path: 'product-list', component: ProductList },
      { path: 'product-details/:id', component: ProductDetails }
    ];
```

Note `:id` in the path of the `product-details` route, which places the
parameter in the path. For example, to see the product details page for
product with ID 5, you must use the following URL:
`localhost:3000/product-details/5`

## Linking to Routes with Parameters

In the `ProductList` component you could display a list of products.
Each product would have a link to the `product-details` route, passing
the ID of the product:

```javascript
    <a *ngFor="let product of products"
      [routerLink]="['/product-details', product.id]">
      {{ product.name }}
    </a>
```

Note that the `routerLink` directive passes an array which specifies the
path and the route parameter. Alternatively we could navigate to the
route programmatically:

```javascript
    goToProductDetails(id) {
      this.router.navigate(['/product-details', id]);
    }
```

## Reading Route Parameters

The `ProductDetails` component must read the parameter, then load the
product based on the ID given in the parameter.

The `ActivatedRoute` service provides a `params` Observable which we can
subscribe to to get the route parameters (see
[Observables](../observables/)).

```javascript
    import { Component, OnInit, OnDestroy } from '@angular/core';
    import { ActivatedRoute } from '@angular/router';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'product-details',
      template: `
        <div>
          Showing product details for product: {{id}}
        </div>
      `,
    })
    export class LoanDetailsPage implements OnInit, OnDestroy {
      id: number;
      private sub: any;
    
      constructor(private route: ActivatedRoute) {}
    
      ngOnInit() {
        this.sub = this.route.params.subscribe(params => {
           this.id = +params['id']; // (+) converts string 'id' to a number
    
           // In a real app: dispatch action to load the details here.
        });
      }
    
      ngOnDestroy() {
        this.sub.unsubscribe();
      }
    }
```

> The reason that the `params` property on `ActivatedRoute` is an
> Observable is that the router may not recreate the component when
> navigating to the same component. In this case the parameter may
> change without the component being recreated.

[View Basic
Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-089-reading-route-parameters)

[View Example with Programmatic Route
Navigation](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-090-programmatic-route-navigation)

> View examples running in full screen mode to see route changes in the
> URL.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Defining Child Routes

When some routes may only be accessible and viewed within other routes
it may be appropriate to create them as child routes.

For example: The product details page may have a tabbed navigation
section that shows the product overview by default. When the user clicks
the "Technical Specs" tab the section shows the specs instead.

If the user clicks on the product with ID 3, we want to show the product
details page with the overview:

`localhost:3000/product-details/3/overview`

When the user clicks "Technical Specs":

`localhost:3000/product-details/3/specs`

`overview` and `specs` are child routes of `product-details/:id`. They
are only reachable within product details.

Our `Routes` with children would look like:

```javascript
    export const routes: Routes = [
      { path: '', redirectTo: 'product-list', pathMatch: 'full' },
      { path: 'product-list', component: ProductList },
      { path: 'product-details/:id', component: ProductDetails,
        children: [
          { path: '', redirectTo: 'overview', pathMatch: 'full' },
          { path: 'overview', component: Overview },
          { path: 'specs', component: Specs }
        ]
      }
    ];
```

Where would the components for these child routes be displayed? Just
like we had a `<router-outlet></router-outlet>` for the root application
component, we would have a router outlet inside the `ProductDetails`
component. The components corresponding to the child routes of
`product-details` would be placed in the router outlet in
`ProductDetails`.

```javascript
    import { Component, OnInit, OnDestroy } from '@angular/core';
    import { ActivatedRoute } from '@angular/router';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'product-details',
      template: `
        <p>Product Details: {{id}}</p>
        <!-- Product information -->
        <nav>
          <a [routerLink]="['overview']">Overview</a>
          <a [routerLink]="['specs']">Technical Specs</a>
        </nav>
        <router-outlet></router-outlet>
        <!-- Overview & Specs components get added here by the router -->
      `
    })
    export default class ProductDetails implements OnInit, OnDestroy {
      id: number;
    
      constructor(private route: ActivatedRoute) {}
    
      ngOnInit() {
        this.sub = this.route.params.subscribe(params => {
           this.id = +params['id']; // (+) converts string 'id' to a number
        });
      }
    
      ngOnDestroy() {
        this.sub.unsubscribe();
      }
    }
```

Alternatively, we could specify `overview` route URL simply as:

`localhost:3000/product-details/3`

```javascript
    export const routes: Routes = [
      { path: '', redirectTo: 'product-list', pathMatch: 'full' },
      { path: 'product-list', component: ProductList },
      { path: 'product-details/:id', component: ProductDetails,
        children: [
          { path: '', component: Overview },
          { path: 'specs', component: Specs }
        ]
      }
    ];
```

Since the `Overview` child route of `product-details` has an empty path,
it will be loaded by default. The `specs` child route remains the same.

[View Example with child
routes](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-091-defining-child-routes)

[View Example with route params & child
routes](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-092-child-routes-parameters)

> View examples running in full screen mode to see route changes in the
> URL.

## Accessing a Parent's Route Parameters

In the above example, say that the child routes of `product-details`
needed the ID of the product to fetch the spec or overview information.
The child route component can access the parent route's parameters as
follows:

```javascript
    export default class Overview {
      parentRouteId: number;
      private sub: any;
    
      constructor(private router: Router,
        private route: ActivatedRoute) {}
    
      ngOnInit() {
        // Get parent ActivatedRoute of this route.
        this.sub = this.router.routerState.parent(this.route)
          .params.subscribe(params => {
            this.parentRouteId = +params["id"];
          });
      }
    
      ngOnDestroy() {
        this.sub.unsubscribe();
      }
    }
```

[View Example child routes accessing parent's route
parameters](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-093-parent-route-parameters)

> View examples running in full screen mode to see route changes in the
> URL.

## Links

Routes can be prepended with `/`, or `../`; this tells Angular where in
the route tree to link to.

| Prefix | Looks in                          |
| ------ | --------------------------------- |
| `/`    | Root of the application           |
| none   | Current component children routes |
| `../`  | Current component parent routes   |

Example:

```javascript
    <a [routerLink]="['route-one']">Route One</a>
    <a [routerLink]="['../route-two']">Route Two</a>
    <a [routerLink]="['/route-three']">Route Three</a>
```

In the above example, the link for route one links to a child of the
current route. The link for route two links to a sibling of the current
route. The link for route three links to a child of the root component
(same as route one link if current route is root component).

[View Example with linking throughout route
tree](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-094-router-linking-route-tree)

> View examples running in full screen mode to see route changes in the
> URL.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Controlling Access to or from a Route

To control whether the user can navigate to or away from a given route,
use route guards.

For example, we may want some routes to only be accessible once the user
has logged in or accepted Terms & Conditions. We can use route guards to
check these conditions and control access to routes.

Route guards can also control whether a user can leave a certain route.
For example, say the user has typed information into a form on the page,
but has not submitted the form. If they were to leave the page, they
would lose the information. We may want to prompt the user if the user
attempts to leave the route without submitting or saving the
information.

## Registering the Route Guards with Routes

In order to use route guards, we must register them with the specific
routes we want them to run for.

For example, say we have an `accounts` route that only users that are
logged in can navigate to. This page also has forms and we want to make
sure the user has submitted unsaved changes before leaving the accounts
page.

In our route config we can add our guards to that route:

```javascript
    import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';
    import { AccountPage } from './account-page';
    import { LoginRouteGuard } from './login-route-guard';
    import { SaveFormsGuard } from './save-forms-guard';
    
    const routes: Routes = [
      { path: 'home', component: HomePage },
      {
        path: 'accounts',
        component: AccountPage,
        canActivate: [LoginRouteGuard],
        canDeactivate: [SaveFormsGuard]
      }
    ];
    
    export const appRoutingProviders: any[] = [];
    
    export const routing = RouterModule.forRoot(routes);
```

Now `LoginRouteGuard` will be checked by the router when activating the
`accounts` route, and `SaveFormsGuard` will be checked when leaving that
route.

## Implementing CanActivate

Let's look at an example activate guard that checks whether the user is
logged in:

```javascript
    import { CanActivate } from '@angular/router';
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { LoginService } from './login-service';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class LoginRouteGuard implements CanActivate {
    
      constructor(private loginService: LoginService) {}
    
      canActivate() {
        return this.loginService.isLoggedIn();
      }
    }
```

This class implements the `CanActivate` interface by implementing the
`canActivate` function.

When `canActivate` returns true, the user can activate the route. When
`canActivate` returns false, the user cannot access the route. In the
above example, we allow access when the user is logged in.

`canActivate` can also be used to notify the user that they can't access
that part of the application, or redirect them to the login page.

[See Official Definition for
CanActivate](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/index/CanActivate-interface.html)

## Implementing CanDeactivate

`CanDeactivate` works in a similar way to `CanActivate` but there are
some important differences. The `canDeactivate` function passes the
component being deactivated as an argument to the function:

```javascript
    export interface CanDeactivate<T> {
      canDeactivate(component: T, route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot):
          Observable<boolean>|Promise<boolean>|boolean;
    }
```

We can use that component to determine whether the user can deactivate.

```javascript
    import { CanDeactivate } from '@angular/router';
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { AccountPage } from './account-page';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SaveFormsGuard implements CanDeactivate<AccountPage> {
    
      canDeactivate(component: AccountPage) {
        return component.areFormsSaved();
      }
    
    }
```

[See Official Definition for
CanDeactivate](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/index/CanDeactivate-interface.html)

## Async Route Guards

The `canActivate` and `canDeactivate` functions can either return values
of type `boolean`, or `Observable<boolean>` (an Observable that resolves
to `boolean`). If you need to do an asynchronous request (like a server
request) to determine whether the user can navigate to or away from the
route, you can simply return an `Observable<boolean>`. The router will
wait until it is resolved and use that value to determine access.

For example, when the user navigates away you could have a dialog
service ask the user to confirm the navigation. The dialog service
returns an `Observable<boolean>` which resolves to true if the user
clicks 'OK', or false if user clicks 'Cancel'.

``` 
  canDeactivate() {
    return dialogService.confirm('Discard unsaved changes?');
  }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-095-async-route-guards)

[See Official Documentation for Route
Guards](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/router.html#!#guards)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Passing Optional Parameters

Query parameters allow you to pass optional parameters to a route such
as pagination information.

For example, on a route with a paginated list, the URL might look like
the following to indicate that we've loaded the second page:

`localhost:3000/product-list?page=2`

> The key difference between query parameters and [route
> parameters](routeparams.html) is that route parameters are essential
> to determining route, whereas query parameters are optional.

## Passing Query Parameters

Use the `[queryParams]` directive along with `[routerLink]` to pass
query parameters. For
    example:

```javascript
    <a [routerLink]="['product-list']" [queryParams]="{ page: 99 }">Go to Page 99</a>
```

Alternatively, we can navigate programmatically using the `Router`
service:

``` 
  goToPage(pageNum) {
    this.router.navigate(['/product-list'], { queryParams: { page: pageNum } });
  }
```

## Reading Query Parameters

Similar to reading [route parameters](routeparams.html), the `Router`
service returns an [Observable](../observables/) we can subscribe to to
read the query parameters:

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { ActivatedRoute, Router } from '@angular/router';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'product-list',
      template: `<!-- Show product list -->`
    })
    export default class ProductList {
      constructor(
        private route: ActivatedRoute,
        private router: Router) {}
    
      ngOnInit() {
        this.sub = this.route
          .queryParams
          .subscribe(params => {
            // Defaults to 0 if no query param provided.
            this.page = +params['page'] || 0;
          });
      }
    
      ngOnDestroy() {
        this.sub.unsubscribe();
      }
    
      nextPage() {
        this.router.navigate(['product-list'], { queryParams: { page: this.page + 1 } });
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-096-router-query-parameter)

[See Official Documentation on Query
Parameters](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/router.html#!#query-parameters)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Auxiliary Routes

Angular supports the concept of auxiliary routes, which allow you to set
up and navigate multiple independent routes in a single app. Each
component has one primary route and zero or more auxiliary outlets.
Auxiliary outlets must have unique name within a component.

To define the auxiliary route we must first add a named router outlet
where contents for the auxiliary route are to be rendered.

Here's an example:

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app',
      template: `
        <nav>
          <a [routerLink]="['/component-one']">Component One</a>
          <a [routerLink]="['/component-two']">Component Two</a>
          <a [routerLink]="[{ outlets: { 'sidebar': ['component-aux'] } }]">Component Aux</a>
        </nav>
    
        <div style="color: green; margin-top: 1rem;">Outlet:</div>
        <div style="border: 2px solid green; padding: 1rem;">
          <router-outlet></router-outlet>
        </div>
    
        <div style="color: green; margin-top: 1rem;">Sidebar Outlet:</div>
        <div style="border: 2px solid blue; padding: 1rem;">
          <router-outlet name="sidebar"></router-outlet>
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
    
    }
```

Next we must define the link to the auxiliary route for the application
to navigate and render the contents.

```javascript
    <a [routerLink]="[{ outlets: { 'sidebar': ['component-aux'] } }]">
      Component Aux
    </a>
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-097-using-auxiliary-routes)

Each auxiliary route is an independent route which can have:

  - its own child routes
  - its own auxiliary routes
  - its own route-params
  - its own history stack

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Adding @ngrx to your Project

In your console, run the following command to add
[@ngrx](https://github.com/ngrx) to your list of dependencies in
`package.json`:

```javascript
    npm install @ngrx/core @ngrx/store --save
```

If you plan on using the
[@ngrx/effects](https://github.com/ngrx/effects) extensions to add
side-effect capabilities, then also run the following command:

```javascript
    npm install @ngrx/effects --save
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

When building an application using Redux, the first thing to think about
is, "What state do I want to store?" It is generally a good idea to
capture all of the application's state so that it can be accessible from
anywhere and all in one place for easy inspection.

In the application state, we store things like:

  - Data received through API calls
  - User input
  - Presentation state, such as menu and button toggles
  - Application preferences
  - Internationalization messages
  - Themes and other customizable areas of your application

To define your application state, use an interface called `AppState` or
`IAppState`, depending on the naming conventions used on your project.

Here's an example:

*app/models/appState.ts*

```javascript
    export interface AppState {
      readonly colors: Colors;
      readonly localization: Localization;
      readonly login: Login;
      readonly projectList: ProjectList;
      readonly registration: Registration;
      readonly showMainNavigation: boolean;
    }
```

> **Note:** We're using `readonly` to ensure compile-time immutability,
> and it provides the simplest immutable implementation without adding
> more dependencies to clutter the examples. However, feel free to use
> another approach on your project that makes sense for your team.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Example Application

In this chapter, you'll be creating a simple counter application using
[@ngrx](https://github.com/ngrx). Your app will allow users to increment
and decrement a number by one, as well as reset that value back to zero.
Here's the `AppState` that we'll be using throughout the example:

*app/models/appState.ts*

```javascript
    import {Counter} from './counter';
    
    export interface AppState {
      readonly counter: Counter;
    }
```

*app/models/counter.ts*

```javascript
    export interface Counter {
      readonly currentValue: number;
    }
```

> It's good practice to declare each interface in its own file, and
> create a logical directory structure if you have seven or more
> interfaces used by your application.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Reading your Application State using Selectors

To read your application state in Redux, we need to use the `select()`
method on [@ngrx's](https://github.com/ngrx/store) `Store` class. This
method creates and returns an `Observable` that is bound to a specific
property in your application state.

For example, here's how you would select the `counter` object:

```javascript
    store.select('counter'); // Returns Observable<Counter>
```

And to fetch the counter's `currentValue`, we can pass in a `string`
array, where each string plucks a single property from the application
state one at a time in the order
    specified:

```javascript
    store.select(['counter', 'currentValue']); // Returns Observable<number>
```

While `select()` allows for several variations of strings to be passed
in, it has it's shortcomings - namely you won't actually know if the
plucking is working properly until you execute your code.

Because of that, `select()` allows you to select values using functions
too, which makes things more type-safe and your selectors will be more
refactorable by your IDE.

```javascript
    store.select(appState => appState.counter.currentValue);
```

## Creating a Counter Service

While you could inject `Store` and select values directly in your
Angular components, it's considered to be a best practice to wrap this
functionality into separate services. This approach encapsulates all of
the selection logic and eliminates any duplication where the selection
path is repeated throughout your application.

Let's tie everything together by building out a `CounterService`
example:

*app/services/counter.service.ts*

```javascript
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    import {Store} from '@ngrx/store';
    import {Observable} from 'rxjs';
    
    import {AppState} from '../models';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CounterService {
    
      constructor(private store: Store<AppState>) {}
    
      getCurrentValue(): Observable<number> {
        return this.store.select(appState => appState.counter.currentValue)
          .filter(Boolean);
      }
    
    }
```

Because `select()` returns an `Observable`, the `getCurrentValue()`
method also applies a `filter()` to ensure that subscribers do not
receive any *falsy* values. This greatly simplifies the code and
templates in your components, since they don't have to repeatedly
consider the falsy case everywhere the value is used.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Actions

Redux uses a concept called Actions, which describe state changes to
your application. Redux actions are simple JSON objects that implement
the `Action` interface provided by [@ngrx](https://github.com/ngrx):

```javascript
    export interface Action {
      type: string;
      payload?: any;
    }
```

The `type` property is a string used to uniquely identify your action to
your application. It's a common convention to use *lisp-case* (such as
`MY_ACTION`), however you are free to use whatever casing style that
makes to your team, as long as it's consistent across the project.

The `payload` property provides a way to pass additional data to other
parts of Redux, and it's entirely optional.

Here is an example:

```javascript
    const loginSendAction: Action = {
      type: 'LOGIN_SEND',
      payload: {
        username: 'katie',
        password: '35c0cd1ecbbb68c75498b83c4e79fe2b'
      }
    };
```

> Plain objects are used so that the actions are serializable and can be
> replayable into the application state. Even if your actions involve
> asynchronous logic, the final dispatched action will remain a plain
> JSON object.

To simplify action creation, you can create a factory function to take
care of the repeating parts within your application:

*app/store/createAction.ts*

```javascript
    import {Action} from '@ngrx/store';
    
    export function createAction(type, payload?): Action {
      return { type, payload };
    }
```

The resulting creation of the `LOGIN_SEND` action becomes much more
succinct and cleaner:

```javascript
    const loginSendAction: Action = createAction('LOGIN_SEND', {
      username: 'katie',
      password: '35c0cd1ecbbb68c75498b83c4e79fe2b'
    });
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Modifying your Application State by Dispatching Actions

Most Redux apps have a set of functions, called "action creators", that
are used to set up and dispatch actions.

In Angular, it's convenient to define your action creators as
`@Injectable()` services, decoupling the dispatch, creation and
side-effect logic from the `@Component` classes in your application.

## Synchronous Actions

Here is a simple example:

*app/store/counter/counter.actions.ts*

```javascript
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    import {Store} from '@ngrx/store';
    
    import {createAction} from '../createAction';
    import {AppState} from '../../models/appState';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CounterActions {
    
      static INCREMENT = 'INCREMENT';
      static DECREMENT = 'DECREMENT';
      static RESET = 'RESET';
    
      constructor(private store: Store<AppState>) {
    
      }
    
      increment() {
        this.store.dispatch(createAction(CounterActions.INCREMENT));
      }
    
      decrement() {
        this.store.dispatch(createAction(CounterActions.DECREMENT));
      }
    
      reset() {
        this.store.dispatch(createAction(CounterActions.RESET));
      }
    
    }
```

As you can see, the action creators are simple functions that dispatch
`Action` objects containing more information that describes the state
modification.

## Asynchronous Actions

This "ActionCreatorService" pattern comes in handy if you must handle
asynchronous or conditional actions (users of react-redux may recognize
this pattern as analogous to redux-thunk in a dependency-injected
world).

*app/store/counter/counter.actions.ts*

```javascript
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    import {Store} from '@ngrx/store';
    
    import {createAction} from '../createAction';
    import {AppState} from '../../models/appState';
    
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CounterActions {
    
      constructor(private store: Store<AppState>) {
    
      }
    
      incrementIfOdd() {
        this.store.select(appState => appState.counter.currentValue)
          .take(1)
          .subscribe(currentValue => {
            if (currentValue % 2 !== 0) {
              this.store.dispatch(createAction(CounterActions.INCREMENT);
            }
          });
      }
    
      incrementAsync(timeInMs: number = 1000) {
        this.delay(timeInMs).then(() => this.store.dispatch(createAction(CounterActions.INCREMENT)));
      }
    
      private delay(timeInMs: number) {
        return new Promise((resolve) => {
          setTimeout(() => resolve() , timeInMs);
        });
      }
    
    }
```

In the `incrementIfOdd()` action creator, we create a one-time
subscription to the counter's `currentValue` in the application state.
From there, we check to see if it's odd before dispatching an action.

In the `incrementAsync()` action creator, we are delaying the actual
call to `dispatch()`. We created a `Promise` that will resolve after the
delay. Once the `Promise` resolves, we can then dispatch an action to
increment the counter.

## Actions that Depend on Other Services

The ActionCreatorService pattern becomes necessary in cases where your
action creators must use other Angular services. Consider the following
`SessionActions` service that handles a remote API call:

```javascript
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    import {Store} from '@ngrx/store';
    
    import {createAction} from '../createAction';
    import {AppState} from '../../models/appState';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SessionActions {
    
      static LOGIN_USER_PENDING = 'LOGIN_USER_PENDING';
      static LOGIN_USER_SUCCESS = 'LOGIN_USER_SUCCESS';
      static LOGIN_USER_ERROR = 'LOGIN_USER_ERROR';
      static LOGOUT_USER = 'LOGOUT_USER';
    
      constructor(
        private store: Store<AppState>,
        private authService: AuthService
      ) {
    
      }
    
      loginUser(credentials: any) {
        this.store.dispatch(createAction(SessionActions.LOGIN_USER_PENDING));
    
        this.authService.login(credentials.username, credentials.password)
          .then(result => this.store.dispatch(createAction(SessionActions.LOGIN_USER_SUCCESS, result)))
          .catch(() => this.store.dispatch(createAction(SessionActions.LOGIN_USER_ERROR)));
      };
    
      logoutUser() {
        this.store.dispatch(createAction(SessionActions.LOGOUT_USER));
      };
    
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Review of Reducers and Pure Functions

One of the core concepts of Redux is the *reducer*. A reducer is a
function with the signature `(accumulator: T, item: U) => T`. Reducers
are often used in JavaScript through the `Array.reduce` method, which
iterates over each of the array's items and accumulates a single value
as a result. Reducers should be *pure functions*, meaning they don't
generate any side-effects.

A simple example of a reducer is the sum function:

```javascript
    let x = [1, 2, 3].reduce((sum, number) => sum + number, 0);
    // x == 6
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Reducers as State Management

Reducers are a simple idea that turns out to be very powerful. With
Redux, you replay a series of actions into the reducer and get your new
application state as a result.

Reducers in a Redux application should not mutate the state, but *return
a copy* of it, and be side-effect free. This encourages you to think of
your application as UI that gets "computed" from a series of actions in
time.

## Simple Reducer

Let's take a look at a simple counter reducer.

*app/store/counter/counter.reducer.ts*

```javascript
    import {Action} from '@ngrx/store';
    
    import {CounterActions} from './counter.actions';
    
    export default function counterReducer(state: number = 0, action: Action): number {
      switch (action.type) {
        case CounterActions.INCREMENT:
          return state + 1;
        case CounterActions.DECREMENT:
          return state - 1;
        case CounterActions.RESET:
          return 0;
        default:
          return state;
      }
    }
```

We can see here that we are passing in an initial state (the current
number) and an `Action`. To handle each action, a common approach is to
use a `switch` statement. Instead of each reducer needing to explicitly
subscribe to the dispatcher, every action gets passed into each reducer,
which handles the actions it's interested in and then returns the new
state along to the next reducer.

Reducers should be side-effect free. This means that they should not
modify things outside of their own scope. They should simply compute the
next application state as a pure function of the reducer's arguments.

For this reason, side-effect causing operations, such as updating a
record in a database, generating an id, etc. should be handled elsewhere
in the application, like in your action creators or using
[@ngrx/effects](https://github.com/ngrx/effects).

## Complex Reducer

Another consideration when creating your reducers is to ensure that they
are immutable and not modifying the state of your application. If you
mutate your application state, it can cause unexpected behavior. There
are a few ways to help maintain immutability in your reducers. One way
is by using new ES6 features such as `Object.assign()` or the spread
operator for arrays.

*app/models/counter.ts*

```javascript
    // ...
    
    export function setCounterCurrentValue(counter: Counter, currentValue: number): Counter {
      return Object.assign({}, counter, { currentValue });
    }
    
    // ...
```

Here, the `setCounterCurrentValue()` function creates a new `Counter`
object that overwrites the `counter.currentValue` property with a new
value while maintaining the references and values of all of the other
properties from `counter`.

Let's update our reducer to utilize this concept:

```javascript
    import {Action} from '@ngrx/store';
    
    import {Counter, createDefaultCounter, setCounterCurrentValue} from '../../models/counter';
    import {CounterActions} from './counter.actions';
    
    export function counterReducer(
      counter: Counter = { currentValue: 0 }, 
      action: Action
    ): Counter {
      switch (action.type) {
        case CounterActions.INCREMENT:
          return setCounterCurrentValue(counter, counter.currentValue + 1);
    
        case CounterActions.DECREMENT:
          return setCounterCurrentValue(counter, counter.currentValue - 1);
    
        case CounterActions.RESET:
          return setCounterCurrentValue(counter, 0);
    
        default:
          return counter;
      }
    }
```

With each action, we take the existing `counter` state and create a new
state with the updated value (such as `counter.currentValue + 1`).

When dealing with complex or deeply nested objects, it can be difficult
to maintain immutability in your application using this syntax. This is
where a library like [Ramda](http://ramdajs.com/) can help.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Reducers as State Management

[@ngrx](https://github.com/ngrx) allows us to break our application into
smaller reducers with a single area of concern. We can combine these
reducers by creating an object that mirrors the application's
`AppState`, where each property will point to one of those smaller
reducers.

*app/store/rootReducer.ts*

```javascript
    import {counterReducer} from './counter/counter.reducer';
    
    export const rootReducer = {
      counter: counterReducer
    };
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Configuring your application

Once you have your reducers created, it’s time to configure your Angular
application. In your main application module, simple add the
`StoreModule.provideStore()` call to your `@NgModule`'s imports:

*app/app.module.ts*

```javascript
    import {BrowserModule} from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import {NgModule} from '@angular/core';
    import {FormsModule} from '@angular/forms';
    import {HttpModule} from '@angular/http';
    import {StoreModule} from '@ngrx/store';
    import {EffectsModule} from '@ngrx/effects';
    
    import 'rxjs/Rx';
    
    import {rootReducer} from './store/rootReducer';
    import {CounterActions} from './store/actions';
    import {CounterEffects} from './store/effects';
    import {AppComponent, CounterComponent} from './components';
    import {CounterService} from './services';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        FormsModule,
        HttpModule,
        StoreModule.provideStore(rootReducer)
      ],
      declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        CounterComponent
      ],
      providers: [
        CounterActions,
        CounterService
      ],
      bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Implementing Components

To demonstrate how to use the `CounterService` in your components, let's
start by building out a small `CounterComponent`. The component will be
responsible for incrementing and decrementing the counter by one, as
well as allowing the user to reset the counter to zero.

*app/components/counter.component.ts*

```javascript
    import {Component, Input} from '@angular/core';
    import {Observable} from 'rxjs';
    
    import {CounterService} from '../services';
    import {CounterActions} from '../store/counter/counter.actions';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'counter',
      templateUrl: './counter.component.html'
    })
    export class CounterComponent {
    
      private currentValue$: Observable<number>;
    
      constructor(
        counterService: CounterService,
        public actions: CounterActions
      ) {
        this.currentValue$ = counterService.getCurrentValue();
      }
    
    }
```

*app/components/counter.component.html*

```javascript
    <p>
      Clicked: {{currentValue$ | async}} times
      <button (click)="actions.increment()">+</button>
      <button (click)="actions.decrement()">-</button>
      <button (click)="actions.reset()">Reset</button>
    </p>
```

The template syntax should be familiar by now, displaying an
`Observable` counter value with the `async` pipe. Any time
`appState.counter.currentValue` is updated by a reducer, `currentValue$`
will receive the new value and `| async` will update it in the template.

The component also handles some click events. Each click event is bound
to expressions that call our action creators from the `CounterActions`
ActionCreatorService.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Component Architecture

Our previous `CounterComponent` example is called a **smart component**
- it knew about Redux, the structure of the state and the actions it
needed to call. In theory you can drop this component into any area of
your application and just let it work, but it will be tightly bound to
that specific slice of state and those specific actions.

For example, what if we wanted to have multiple counters tracking
different things on the page? Or how about counting the number of red
clicks vs blue clicks?

To help make components more generic and reusable, it's worth trying to
separate them into *container* components and *presentational*
components.

|                | Container Components      | Presentational Components                |
| -------------: | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
|       Location | Top level, route handlers | Middle and leaf components               |
| Aware of Redux | Yes                       | No                                       |
|   To read data | Subscribe to Redux state  | Read state from @Input properties        |
| To change data | Dispatch Redux actions    | Invoke callbacks from @Output properties |

[redux docs](http://redux.js.org/docs/basics/UsageWithReact.html)

Keeping this in mind, let's refactor our `CounterComponent` to be a
*presentational* component.

## Modifying `AppComponent` to become a smart component

First, let's modify our top-level application component to use the
`CounterService` and `CounterActions`, just as `CounterComponent` did:

*app/app.component.ts*

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    import {Observable} from 'rxjs';
    
    import {Counter} from '../../models/counter';
    import {CounterService} from '../../services/counter.service';
    import {CounterActions} from '../../store/counter/counter.actions';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'app-root',
      templateUrl: './app.component.html',
      styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
    })
    export class AppComponent {
    
      counter$: Observable<Counter>;
    
      constructor(
        counterService: CounterService,
        public actions: CounterActions
      ) {
        this.counter$ = counterService.getCounter();
      }
    
    }
```

Now our `AppComponent` is a smart-component, because it's aware of
Redux, it's presence in the application state and the underlying
services. As with previous examples, we can use the `async` pipe to
obtain the most recent `counter` value and pass it along to other
components within the template.

And while we haven't looked at the `@Output()`'s on `CounterComponent`
just yet, we'll want to delegate those events to our action creators in
`CounterActions`.

*app/app.component.html*

```javascript
    <counter [counter]="counter$ | async"
             (onIncrement)="actions.increment()"
             (onDecrement)="actions.decrement()"
             (onReset)="actions.reset()">
    </counter>
```

## Modifying `CounterComponent` to become a presentation component

In turn, we need to make the `CounterComponent` from a *smart component*
into a *dumb component*. For this, we will pass the data into the
component using `@Input` properties and click events using `@Output()`
properties, removing the use of `CounterService` and `CounterActions`
entirely.

*app/counter/counter.component.ts*

```javascript
    import {Component, Input, EventEmitter, Output} from '@angular/core';
    
    import {Counter} from '../../models/counter';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'counter',
      templateUrl: './counter.component.html'
    })
    export class CounterComponent {
    
      @Input()
      counter: Counter;
    
      @Output()
      onIncrement: EventEmitter<void> = new EventEmitter<void>();
    
      @Output()
      onDecrement: EventEmitter<void> = new EventEmitter<void>();
    
      @Output()
      onReset: EventEmitter<void> = new EventEmitter<void>();
    
    }
```

Our child components become much simpler and testable, because we don't
have to use the `async` pipe to work with our state, which removes a lot
of pain when dealing with lots of `@Input`'s or the need to use complex
expressions with `Observable`'s.

We can also now simply use core Angular features to emit values whenever
a click event happens:

*app/counter/counter.component.html*

```javascript
    <p>
      Clicked: {{counter.currentValue}} times
      <button (click)="onIncrement.emit()">+</button>
      <button (click)="onDecrement.emit()">-</button>
      <button (click)="onReset.emit()">Reset</button>
    </p>
```

We now have a nicely-reusable presentational component with no knowledge
of Redux or our application state.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Side Effects

Often times, we need to perform some logic after an action has been
dispatched and the store has been updated. Because reducers should be
side-effect free, we need a way to handle these side-effects. Sometimes
we can put this logic with our action creator services, and that works
for simple cases, but often times the same block of logic needs to run
in response to multiple action types.

[@ngrx](https://github.com/ngrx) offers a library called
[@ngrx/effects](https://github.com/ngrx/effects) to solve these
problems.

## Creating your first effects service

Let's say we have an application that supports customizable themes and
other customization options. To support this functionality, we'll need
to fetch these customizations from the server whenever a user logs into
the application.

Let's build out a `CustomizationEffects` service to accomplish this:

```javascript
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    import {Action} from '@ngrx/store';
    import {Actions, Effect} from '@ngrx/effects';
    import {Observable} from 'rxjs';
    
    import {createAction} from '../createAction';
    import {CustomizationActions, SessionActions} from '../session/session.actions.ts';
    import {ApiService} from '../../services';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CustomizationEffects {
    
      constructor(
        private actions$: Actions,
        private apiService: ApiService
      ) {
    
      }
    
      @Effect()
      login$ = this.actions$
        .ofType(SessionActions.LOGIN_SEND_SUCCESS)
        .mergeMap<Action>(action => this.apiService.getCustomizations(action.payload.userId)
          .map(result => createAction(CustomizationActions.CUSTOMIZATIONS_RETRIEVE_SUCCESS, result.json()))
          .catch(error => Observable.of(createAction(CustomizationActions.CUSTOMIZATIONS_RETRIEVE_ERROR, error.json())))
        );
    
    }
```

[@ngrx/effects](https://github.com/ngrx/effects) provides an Angular
`actions$` service (which is also an `Observable`) to emit every action
that has been dispatched by your application in a single stream. Its
`ofType()` method can be used to filter the one or more actions we're
interesting in before adding a side-effect.

In this example, when the `LOGIN_SEND_SUCCESS` action occurs from
anywhere in the application, we make a request to the server to fetch
the user's customizations given their `userId`, which has been attached
to the payload of this action. Regardless if this requests succeeds or
fails, we need to create and return an `Observable` that is bound to the
new action we'd like Redux to perform, such as storing the
customizations when the request is successful, or processing the error
returned by the server if there's an error.

To tell [@ngrx/effects](https://github.com/ngrx/effects) which
`Observable` objects are side-effects to associate them with Redux, we
need to provide a hint using the `@Effect()` decorator. Without it, your
side-effect will not run.

## Configuring your effects service

Lastly, we just need to add the `CustomizationEffects` service as a
module to the `@NgModule`'s imports to start the effects:

```javascript
    // ...
    import {EffectsModule} from '@ngrx/effects';
    
    import {CustomizationEffects} from './store/customization/customization.effects';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        // ...
        EffectsModule.run(CustomizationEffects)
      ],
      // ...
    })
    export class AppModule { }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Getting more from Redux and @ngrx

## Redux

Redux has a number of tools and middleware available in its ecosystem to
facilitate elegant app development.

  - *[Redux DevTools](https://github.com/gaearon/redux-devtools)* - a
    tool that displays a linear timeline of actions that have interacted
    with its store. Allows for replaying actions and error handling
  - *[redux-thunk](https://github.com/gaearon/redux-thunk)* - middleware
    that enables lazy evaluation of
    actions
  - *[redux-observable](https://github.com/redux-observable/redux-observable)*
    - an RxJS-based model for handling side-effects on action streams.
  - \*[ng2-redux-router](https://github.com/dagstuan/ng2-redux-router) -
    reactive glue between the Angular router and your redux store.

## @ngrx

@ngrx provides most of its Redux implementation through the
[ngrx/store](https://github.com/ngrx/store) module. Other modules are
available for better integration and development.

  - *[ngrx/store-devtools](https://github.com/ngrx/store-devtools)* - an
    ngrx implementation of the Redux DevTools
  - *[ngrx/effects](https://github.com/ngrx/effects)* - a model for
    performing side-effects similar to `redux-saga`
  - *[ngrx/router](https://github.com/ngrx/router)* and
    *[ngrx/router-store](https://github.com/ngrx/router-store)* - a
    router for Angular that can be connected to your ngrx store

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# The Testing Toolchain

Our testing toolchain will consist of the following tools:

  - Jasmine
  - Karma
  - Phantom-js
  - Istanbul
  - Sinon
  - Chai

[Jasmine](http://jasmine.github.io/) is the most popular testing
framework in the Angular community. This is the core framework that we
will write our unit tests with.

[Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/) is a test automation tool for
controlling the execution of our tests and what browser to perform them
under. It also allows us to generate various reports on the results. For
one or two tests this may seem like overkill, but as an application
grows larger and the number of units to test grows, it is important to
organize, execute and report on tests in an efficient manner. Karma is
library agnostic so we could use other testing frameworks in combination
with other tools (like code coverage reports, spy testing, e2e, etc.).

In order to test our Angular application we must create an environment
for it to run in. We could use a browser like Chrome or Firefox to
accomplish this (Karma supports in-browser testing), or we could use a
browser-less environment to test our application, which can offer us
greater control over automating certain tasks and managing our testing
workflow. [PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/) provides a JavaScript API
that allows us to create a headless DOM instance which can be used to
bootstrap our Angular application. Then, using that DOM instance that is
running our Angular application, we can run our tests.

[Istanbul](https://gotwarlost.github.io/istanbul/) is used by Karma to
generate code coverage reports, which tells us the overall percentage of
our application being tested. This is a great way to track which
components/services/pipes/etc. have tests written and which don't. We
can get some useful insight into how much of the application is being
tested and where.

For some extra testing functionality we can use the
[Sinon](http://sinonjs.org/) library for things like test spys, test
subs and mock XHR requests. This is not necessarily required as Jasmine
comes with the `spyOn` function for incorporating spy tests.

[Chai](http://Chaijs.com/) is an assertion library that can be paired
with any other testing framework. It offers some syntactic sugar that
lets us write our unit tests with different verbiage - we can use a
*should*, *expect* or *assert* interface. Chai also takes advantage of
"function chaining" to form English-like sentences used to describe
tests in a more user friendly way. Chai isn't a required library for
testing and we won't explore it much more in this handout, but it is a
useful tool for creating cleaner, more well-written tests.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Filename Conventions

Each unit test is put into its own separate file. The Angular team
recommends putting unit test scripts alongside the files they are
testing and using a `.spec` filename extension to mark it as a testing
script (this is a Jasmine convention). So if you had a component
`/app/components/mycomponent.ts`, then your unit test for this component
would be in `/app/components/mycomponent.spec.ts`. This is a matter of
personal preference; you can put your testing scripts wherever you like,
though keeping them close to your source files makes them easier to find
and gives those who aren't familiar with the source code an idea of how
that particular piece of code should work.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Karma Configuration

Karma is the foundation of our testing workflow. It brings together our
other testing tools to define the framework we want to use, the
environment to test under, the specific actions we want to perform, etc.
In order to do this Karma relies on a configuration file named by
default *karma.conf.js*.

You can seed a new configuration file though the `karma init` command,
which will guide you through a few basic questions to get a bare minimum
setup running.

## Overview

The configuration file is put together by exporting a function that
accepts the configuration object that Karma is going to work with.
Modifying certain properties on this object will tell Karma what it is
we want to do. Let's go over some of the key properties used in this
configuration file:

```javascript
    module.exports = (config) => {
      const coverage = config.singleRun ? ['coverage'] : [];
    
      config.set({
        frameworks: [...],
        plugins: [ ... ],
        files: [ ... ],
        preprocessors: { ... },
    
        webpack: { ... },
    
        reporters: [ ... ],
        coverageReporter: { ... },
    
        port: 9999,
        browsers: ['Chrome'], // Alternatively: 'PhantomJS'
        colors: true,
        logLevel: config.LOG_INFO,
        autoWatch: true,
        captureTimeout: 6000,
      });
    };
```

### frameworks

```javascript
    frameworks: [
      'jasmine',
    ],
```

`frameworks` is a list of the testing frameworks we want to use. These
frameworks must be installed through NPM as a dependency in our project
or/and as a Karma plugin.

### plugins

```javascript
    plugins: [
      'karma-jasmine',
      'karma-webpack',
      'karma-coverage',
      'karma-remap-istanbul',
      'karma-chrome-launcher',
    ],
```

Plugins that integrate karma with testing frameworks like Jasmine or
build systems like Webpack.

### files

```javascript
    files: [
      './src/tests.entry.ts',
      {
        pattern: '**/*.map',
        served: true,
        included: false,
        watched: true,
      },
    ],
```

`files` is a list of files to be loaded into the browser/testing
environment. These are loaded sequentially, so order matters. The file
list can also take the form of a glob pattern as it becomes rather
tedious to manually add in a new file for each new testing script
created.

In the angular2-redux-starter *karma.conf.js* we have put the testing
files we wish to include in a separate file - *src/tests.entry.ts*,
which includes a `require` call using a regex pattern for importing
files with the **.spec.ts** file extension. As a project grows larger
and the number of files to include grows in complexity it is good
practice to put file imports in a separate file - this keeps the
*karma.conf.js* file cleaner and more readable. Here is what our
*src/tests.entry.ts* looks
    like:

```javascript
    let testContext = (<{ context?: Function }>require).context('./', true, /\.test\.ts/);
    testContext.keys().forEach(testContext);
```

### preprocessors

```javascript
    preprocessors: {
      './src/tests.entry.ts': [
        'webpack',
        'sourcemap',
      ],
      './src/**/!(*.test|tests.*).(ts|js)': [
        'sourcemap',
      ],
    }
```

`preprocessors` allow for some operation to be performed on the contents
of a unit testing file before it is executed. These operations are
carried out through the use of Karma plugins and are often used for
transpiling operations. Since we are writing unit tests in TypeScript,
*.ts* files must be transpiled into plain Javascript in order to run in
a browser-based environment.

In angular2-redux-starter this process is done with webpack, so we
explicitly invoke the `webpack` processor on all of our testing files
(those ending with *.spec.ts*). We also load any source map files
originating from transpilation through the `sourcemap` processor.

### webpack

``` 
 webpack: {
  plugins,
  entry: './src/tests.entry.ts',
  devtool: 'inline-source-map',
  resolve: {
    extensions: ['.webpack.js', '.web.js', '.ts', '.js'],
  },
  module: {
    rules:
      combinedLoaders().concat(
        config.singleRun
          ? [ loaders.istanbulInstrumenter ]
          : [ ]),
  },
  stats: { colors: true, reasons: true },
},
webpackServer: {
  noInfo: true, // prevent console spamming when running in Karma!
}
```

If the project uses webpack, then the property `webpack` in the Karma
configuration object is where we can configure webpack with Karma. In
the angular2-redux-starter, plugins and loaders are exported from their
own files to be imported by both the webpack config and the karma
config, making the configuration object smaller.

Using webpack, we can configure how to bundle our unit tests; that is,
whether to pack all tests into a single bundle, or each unit test in its
own bundle, etc. Regardless, unit tests should not be bundled with the
rest of the applications code (especially in production\!). In
angular2-redux-starter we have opted to bundle all unit tests together.

### coverageReporters and reporters

```javascript
    reporters: ['spec']
      .concat(coverage)
      .concat(coverage.length > 0 ? ['karma-remap-istanbul'] : []),
    
    remapIstanbulReporter: {
      src: 'coverage/chrome/coverage-final.json',
      reports: {
        html: 'coverage',
      },
    },
    
    coverageReporter: {
      reporters: [
        { type: 'json' },
      ],
      dir: './coverage/',
      subdir: (browser) => {
        return browser.toLowerCase().split(/[ /-]/)[0]; // returns 'chrome'
      },
    },
```

`coverageReporter` is used to configure the output of results of our
code coverage tool (our toolchain uses Istanbul). Here we have specified
to output the results in JSON and HTML. Reports will appear in the
*coverage/* folder.

`reporters` is a list of reporters to use in the test cycle. Reporters
can be thought of as modular tools used to report on some aspect of the
testing routine outside of the core unit tests. Code coverage is an
example of a reporter - we want it to report on how much of our code is
being tested. [There are many more reporters available for
Karma](https://www.npmjs.com/browse/keyword/karma-reporter) that can aid
in crafting your testing workflow.

### Environment configuration

```javascript
    port: 9999,
    browsers: ['Chrome'], // Alternatively: 'PhantomJS'
    colors: true,
    logLevel: config.LOG_INFO,
    autoWatch: true,
    captureTimeout: 6000,
```

`port`, `browsers` and `singleRun` configure the environment our unit
tests will run under. The `browsers` property specifies which browser we
want Karma to launch and capture output from. We can use Chrome,
Firefox, Safari, IE or Opera (requires additional Karma launcher to be
installed for each respective browser). For a browser-less DOM instance
we can use PhantomJS (as outlined in the toolchain section).

We can also manually capture output from a browser by navigating to
`http://localhost:port`, where port is the number specified in the
`port` property (the default value is 9876 if not specified). The
property `singleRun` controls how Karma executes, if set to `true`,
Karma will start, launch configured browsers, run tests and then exit
with a code of either `0` or `1` depending on whether or not all tests
passed.

## Completed Configuration

The net result of customizing all of these proprties is the
[*karma.conf.js* file in
angular-redux-starter](https://github.com/rangle/angular2-redux-example/blob/master/karma.conf.js).

## Additional Resources

This is just a sample of the core properties in *karma.conf.js* being
used by angular2-redux-starter project. There are many more properties
that can be used to extend and configure the functionality of Karma -
[take a look at the official documentation for the full API
breakdown](http://karma-runner.github.io/0.13/config/configuration-file.html).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# TestBed Configuration (Optional)

As you will see in [Testing
Components](handout/testing/components/README.md), real-world component
testing often relies on the Angular2 testing utility `TestBed`, which
requires some configuration. Most significantly, we need to use
`TestBed.initTestEnvironment` to create a testing platform before we can
use unit tests with `TestBed`. This testing environment would have to be
created, destroyed and reset as appropriate before every unit test.

In the angular2-redux-starter, this configuration is done in a
[`tests.configure.ts`](https://github.com/rangle/angular2-redux-example/blob/master/src/tests.configure.ts)
file and imported into every unit test for easy re-use.

```javascript
    import {
      getTestBed,
      ComponentFixtureAutoDetect,
      TestBed,
    } from '@angular/core/testing';
    
    import {
      BrowserDynamicTestingModule,
      platformBrowserDynamicTesting,
    } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic/testing';
    
    export const configureTests = (configure: (testBed: TestBed) => void) => {
      const testBed = getTestBed();
    
      if (testBed.platform == null) {
        testBed.initTestEnvironment(
          BrowserDynamicTestingModule,
          platformBrowserDynamicTesting());
      }
    
      testBed.configureCompiler({
          providers: [
            {provide: ComponentFixtureAutoDetect, useValue: true},
          ]
        });
    
      configure(testBed);
    
      return testBed.compileComponents().then(() => testBed);
    };
```

`tests.configure.ts` creates the testing platform if it doesn't already
exist, compiles the template, and exports `configureTests` which can
then be imported and used in our unit tests.

Here's a look at how it would be used:

```javascript
    import { TestBed } from '@angular/core/testing';
    import { ExampleComponent } from './index';
    import { configureTests } from '../../tests.configure';
    import { AppModule } from '../../modules/app.module';
    
    describe('Component: Example', () => {
      let fixture;
    
      beforeEach(done => {
        const configure = (testBed: TestBed) => {
          testBed.configureTestingModule({
            imports: [AppModule],
          });
        };
    
        configureTests(configure).then(testBed => {
          fixture = testBed.createComponent(ExampleComponent);
          fixture.detectChanges();
          done();
        });
      });
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Typings

Since our project and unit tests are written in TypeScript, we need type
definitions for the libraries we'll be writing our tests with (Chai and
Jasmine). In
[angular2-redux-example](https://github.com/rangle/angular2-redux-example)
we have included these type definitions from `@types`.

If you're following the example of angular2-redux-starter and using a
`tests.entry` file to specify your project testing requirements, bear in
mind you'll also need to add node typings to your dependencies.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Executing Test Scripts

Our entire testing workflow is done through Karma. Run the command
`karma start` to kickstart Karma into setting up the testing
environment, running through each unit test and executing any reporters
we have set up in the *karma.config.js* configuration file. In order to
run Karma through the command line it must be installed globally (`npm
install karma -g`).

A good practice is to amalgamate all the project's task/build commands
through npm. This gives continuity to your build process and makes it
easier for people to test/run your application without knowing your
exact technology stack. In *package.json* the `scripts` field holds an
object with key-value pairing, where the key is the alias for the
command and the value is the command to be executed.

```javascript
    ...
    "scripts": {
        "test": "karma start",
        ...
    }
    ...
```

Now running `npm test` will start Karma. Below is the output of our
Karma test. As you can see we had one test that passed, running in a
Chrome 48 browser.

![Figure: image](handout/images/simple-output.png)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Simple Test

To begin, let's start by writing a simple test in Jasmine.

```javascript
    describe('Testing math', () => {
      it('multiplying should work', () => {
        expect(4 * 4).toEqual(16);
      });
    });
```

Though this test may be trivial, it illustrates the basic elements of a
unit test. We explain what this test is for by using `describe`, and we
use `it` to assert what kind of result we are expecting from our test.
These are user-defined so it's a good idea to be as descriptive and
accurate in these messages as possible. Messages like "should work", or
"testing service" don't really explain exactly what's going on and may
be confusing when running multiple tests across an entire application.

Our actual test is basic, we use `expect` to formulate a scenario and
use `toEqual` to assert the resulting condition we are expecting from
that scenario. The test will pass if our assertion is equal to the
resulting condition, and fail otherwise. You always want your tests to
pass - do not write tests that have the results you want in a failed
state.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Chai

Chai is an assertion library with some tasty syntax sugar that can be
paired with any other testing framework. It lets us write tests in a TDD
(Test Driven Development) style or BDD (Behavior Driven Development)
style. We already know what TDD is (read the intro\!), so what exactly
is BDD? Well BDD is the combination of using TDD with natural language
constructs (English-like sentences) to express the behavior and outcomes
of unit tests. Jasmine already uses a TDD style, so we'll be using Chai
for its BDD interfaces, mainly through the use of `should` and `expect`.

```javascript
    describe('Testing math', () => {
      it('multiplying should work', () => {
        let testMe = 16;
    
        // Using the expect interface
        chai.expect(testMe).to.be.a('number');
        chai.expect(testMe).to.equal(16);
    
        // Using the should interface
        chai.should();
        testMe.should.be.a('number');
        testMe.should.equal(16);
      });
    });
```

The `expect` and `should` interface both take advantage of chaining to
construct English-like sentences for describing tests. Once you've
decided on a style you should maintain that style for all your other
tests. Each style has its own unique syntax; refer to the [documentation
for that specific API](http://Chaijs.com/guide/styles/).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Verifying Methods and Properties

We can test the properties and methods of simple Angular components
fairly easily - after all, Angular components are simple classes that we
can create and interface with. Say we had a simple component that kept a
defined message displayed. The contents of the message may be changed
through the `setMessage` function, and the `clearMessage` function would
put an empty message in place. This is a very trivial component but how
would we test it?

*message.component.ts*

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'display-message',
      template: '<h1>{{message}}</h1>'
    })
    
    export class MessageComponent {
      public message: string = '';
    
      constructor() {}
    
      setMessage(newMessage: string) {
          this.message = newMessage;
      }
    
      clearMessage() {
        this.message = '';
      }
    }
```

Now for our unit test. We'll create two tests, one to test the
`setMessage` function to see if the new message shows up and another to
test the `clearMessage` function to see if clearing the message works as
expected.

*message.spec.ts*

```javascript
    import {MessageComponent} from './message.component';
    
    describe('Testing message state in message.component', () => {
      let app: MessageComponent;
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        app = new MessageComponent();
      });
    
      it('should set new message', () => {
        app.setMessage('Testing');
        expect(app.message).toBe('Testing');
      });
    
      it('should clear message', () => {
        app.clearMessage();
        expect(app.message).toBe('');
      });
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-098-verifying-methods-properties)

We have created two tests: one for `setMessage` and the other for
`clearMessage`. In order to call those functions we must first
initialize the `MessageComponent` class. This is accomplished by calling
the `beforeEach` function before each test is performed.

Once our `MessageComponent` object is created we can call `setMessage`
and `clearMessage` and analyze the results of those actions. We
formulate an expected result, and then test to see if the result we were
expecting came to be. Here we are testing whether or not the message we
tried to set modified the `MessageComponent` property `message` to the
value we intended. If it did, then the test was successful and our
`MessageComponent` works as expected.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Injecting Dependencies and DOM Changes

In the previous example the class we were testing, `MessageComponent`,
did not have any injected dependencies. In Angular, components will
often rely on services and other classes (pipes/providers/etc.) to
function, which will be injected into the constructor of the components
class. When testing these components we have to inject the dependencies
ourselves. Since this is an Angular-specific routine, there are no pure
Jasmine functions used to accomplish this. Angular provides a multitude
of functions in `@angular/core/testing` that allows us to to effectively
test our components. Let's take a look at a basic component:

*quote.component.ts*

```javascript
    import { QuoteService } from './quote.service';
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'my-quote',
      template: '<h3>Random Quote</h3> <div>{{quote}}</div>'
    })
    
    export class QuoteComponent {
      quote: string;
    
      constructor(private quoteService: QuoteService){};
    
      getQuote() {
        this.quoteService.getQuote().then((quote) => {
          this.quote = quote;
        });
      };
    }
```

This component relies on the `QuoteService` to get a random quote, which
it will then display. The class is pretty simple - it only has the
`getQuote` function that will modify the DOM, therefore it will be our
main area of focus in testing.

In order to test this component we need initiate the `QuoteComponent`
class. The Angular testing library offers a utility called `TestBed`.
This allows us to configure a testing module where we can provided
mocked dependencies. Additionally it will create the component for us
and return a *component fixture* that we can perform testing operations
on.

*quote.spec.ts*

```javascript
    import { QuoteService } from './quote.service';
    import { QuoteComponent } from './quote.component';
    import { provide, destroyPlatform } from '@angular/core';
    import {
      async,
      inject,
      TestBed,
    } from '@angular/core/testing';
    import {
      BrowserDynamicTestingModule,
      platformBrowserDynamicTesting
    } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic/testing';
    
    class MockQuoteService {
      public quote: string = 'Test quote';
    
      getQuote() {
        return Promise.resolve(this.quote);
      }
    }
    
    describe('Testing Quote Component', () => {
    
      let fixture;
    
      beforeEach(() => destroyPlatform());
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.initTestEnvironment(
          BrowserDynamicTestingModule,
          platformBrowserDynamicTesting()
        );
    
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
          declarations: [
            QuoteComponent
          ],
          providers: [
            { provide: QuoteService, useClass: MockQuoteService }
          ]
        });
        fixture = TestBed.createComponent(QuoteComponent);
        fixture.detectChanges();
      });
    
      it('Should get quote', async(inject([], () => {
        fixture.componentInstance.getQuote();
        fixture.whenStable()
          .then(() => {
            fixture.detectChanges();
            return fixture.whenStable();
          })
          .then(() => {
            const compiled = fixture.debugElement.nativeElement;
            expect(compiled.querySelector('div').innerText).toEqual('Test quote');
          });
      })));
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-099-injecting-dependencies)

Testing the `QuoteComponent` is a fairly straightforward process. We
want to create a `QuoteComponent`, feed it a quote and see if it appears
in the DOM. This process requires us to create the component, pass in
any dependencies, trigger the component to perform an action and then
look at the DOM to see if the action is what we expected.

Let's take a look at how this is accomplished with the above unit test.

We use `TestBed.initTestingEnvironment` to create a testing platform
using `BrowserDynamicTestingModule` and `platformBrowserDynamicTesting`
as arguments, which are also imported from angular and allow the
application to be bootstrapped for testing. This is necessary for all
unit tests that make use of `TestBed`. Notice that this platform is
destroyed and reset before each test runs.

We use `TestBed.configureTestingModule` to feed in any dependencies that
our component requires. Here our component depends on the `QuoteService`
to get data. We mock this data ourselves thus giving us control over
what value we expect to show up. It is good practice to separate
component testing from service testing - this makes it easier to test as
you are only focusing on a single aspect of the application at a time.
If your service or component fails, how will you know which one was the
culprit? We inject the `QuoteService` dependency using our mock class
`MockQuoteService`, where we will provide mock data for the component to
consume.

Next we use `TestBed.createComponent(QuoteComponent)` to create a
*fixture* for us to use in our tests. This will then create a new
instance of our component, fulfilling any Angular-specific routines like
dependency injection. A fixture is a powerful tool that allows us to
query the DOM rendered by a component, as well as change DOM elements
and component properties. It is the main access point of testing
components and we use it extensively.

In the `Should get quote` test we have gotten access to our component
through the `fixture.componentInstance` property. We then call
`getQuote` to kickstart our only action in the `QuoteComponent`
component. We run the test when the fixture is stable by using its
`whenStable` method which will ensure the promise inside the
`getQuote()` has resolved, giving the component a chance to set the
quote value. We call `fixture.detectChanges` to keep an eye out for any
changes taking place to the DOM, and use the
`fixture.debugElement.nativeElement` property to get access to those
underlying DOM elements.

Now we can check to see if the DOM rendered by our `QuoteComponent`
contains the quote that we mocked in through the `QuoteService`. The
final line attempts to assert that the DOM's div tag contains the mocked
quote 'Test Quote' inside. If it does, then our component passes the
test and works as expected; if it doesn't, that means our component is
not outputting quotes correctly.

We wrap `Should get quote` test in `async()`. This is to allow our tests
run in an asynchronous test zone. Using `async` creates a test zone
which will ensure that all asynchronous functions have resolved prior to
ending the test.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Overriding Dependencies for Testing

`TestBed` provides several functions to allow us to override
dependencies that are being used in a test module.

  - `overrideModule`
  - `overrideComponent`
  - `overrideDirective`
  - `overridePipe`

For example, you might want to override the template of a component.
This is useful for testing a small part of a large component, as you can
ignore the output from the rest of the DOM and only focus on the part
you are interested in testing.

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'display-message',
      template: `
        <div>
          <div>
            <h1>{{message}}</h1>
          <div>
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class MessageComponent {
      public message: string = '';
    
      setMessage(newMessage: string) {
          this.message = newMessage;
      }
    }
```

```javascript
    import {MessageComponent} from './message.component';
    import { provide } from '@angular/core';
    import {
      async,
      inject,
      TestBed,
    } from '@angular/core/testing';
    
    describe('MessageComponent', () => {
    
      let fixture;
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
          declarations: [MessageComponent],
          providers: []
        });
    
        fixture = TestBed.overrideComponent(MessageComponent, {
          set: {
            template: '<span>{{message}}</span>'
          }})
          .createComponent(MessageComponent);
    
        fixture.detectChanges();
      });
    
      it('should set the message', async(inject([], () => {
        fixture.componentInstance.setMessage('Test message');
        fixture.detectChanges();
        fixture.whenStable().then(() => {
          const compiled = fixture.debugElement.nativeElement;
          expect(compiled.querySelector('span').innerText).toEqual('Test message');
        });
      })));
    
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-100-overriding-dependencies)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing Asynchronous Actions

Sometimes we need to test components that rely on asynchronous actions
that happen at specific times. Angular provides a function called
`fakeAsync` which wraps our tests in a zone and gives us access to the
`tick` function, which will allow us to simulate the passage of time
precisely.

Let's go back to the example of the `QuoteComponent` component and
rewrite the unit test using `fakeAsync`:

```javascript
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import { QuoteService } from './quote.service';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'my-quote',
      template: '<h3>Random Quote</h3> <div>{{quote}}</div>'
    })
    
    export class QuoteComponent {
      quote: string;
    
      constructor(private quoteService: QuoteService){};
    
      getQuote() {
        this.quoteService.getQuote().then((quote) => {
          this.quote = quote;
        });
      };
    }
```

```javascript
    import { QuoteService } from './quote.service';
    import { QuoteComponent } from './quote.component';
    import { provide } from '@angular/core';
    import {
      async,
      TestBed,
      fakeAsync,
      tick,
    } from '@angular/core/testing';
    
    class MockQuoteService {
      public quote: string = 'Test quote';
    
      getQuote() {
        return Promise.resolve(this.quote);
      }
    }
    
    describe('Testing Quote Component', () => {
    
      let fixture;
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
          declarations: [
            QuoteComponent
          ],
          providers: [
            { provide: QuoteService, useClass: MockQuoteService }
          ]
        });
        fixture = TestBed.createComponent(QuoteComponent);
        fixture.detectChanges();
      });
    
      it('Should get quote', fakeAsync(() => {
        fixture.componentInstance.getQuote();
        tick();
        fixture.detectChanges();
        const compiled = fixture.debugElement.nativeElement;
        expect(compiled.querySelector('div').innerText).toEqual('Test quote');
      }));
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-101-testing-asynchronous-actions)

Here we have a `QuoteComponent` that has a `getQuote` which triggers an
asynchronous update. We have wrapped our entire test in `fakeAsync`
which will allow us to test the asynchronous behavior of our component
(`getQuote()`) using synchronous function calls by calling `tick()`. We
can then run `detectChanges` and query the DOM for our expected result.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Refactoring Hard-to-Test Code

As you start writing unit tests, you may find that a lot of your code is
hard to test. The best strategy is often to refactor your code to make
it easy to test. For example, consider refactoring your component code
into services and focusing on service tests or vice versa.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing Strategies for Services

When testing services that make HTTP calls, we don't want to hit the
server with real requests. This is because we want to isolate the
testing of our service from any other outside points of failure. Our
service may work, but if the API server is failing or giving values we
aren't expecting, it may give the impression that our service is the one
failing. Also, as a project grows and the number of unit tests increase,
running through a large number of tests that make HTTP requests will
take a long time and may put strain on the API server. Therefore, when
testing services we'll be mocking out fake data with fake requests.

## Injecting Dependencies

Like components, services often require dependencies that Angular
injects through the constructor of the service's class. Since we are
initializing these classes outside the bootstrapping process of Angular,
we must explicitly inject these dependencies ourselves. This is
accomplished by using the `TestBed` to configure a testing module and
feed in required dependencies like the HTTP module.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing HTTP Requests

Services, by their nature, perform asynchronous tasks. When we make an
HTTP request we do so in an asynchronous manner so as not to block the
rest of the application from carrying out its operations. We looked a
bit at testing components asynchronously earlier - fortunately a lot of
this knowledge carries over into testing services asynchronously.

The basic strategy for testing such a service is to verify the contents
of the request being made (correct URL) and ensure that the data we mock
into the service is returned correctly by the right method.

Let's take a look at some code:

*wikisearch.ts*

```javascript
    import {Http} from '@angular/http';
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    import {Observable} from 'rxjs';
    import 'rxjs/add/operator/map'
    
    @Injectable()
    export class SearchWiki {
      constructor (private http: Http) {}
    
      search(term: string): Observable<any> {
        return this.http.get(
          'https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?' +
          'action=query&list=search&srsearch=' + term
        ).map((response) => response.json());
      }
    
      searchXML(term: string): Observable<any> {
        return this.http.get(
          'https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?' +
          'action=query&list=search&format=xmlfm&srsearch=' + term
        );
      }
    }
```

Here is a basic service. It will query Wikipedia with a search term and
return an `Observable` with the results of the query. The search
function will make a GET request with the supplied term, and the
searchXML method will do the same thing, except request the response to
be in XML instead of JSON. As you can see, it depends on the HTTP module
to make a request to wikipedia.org.

Our testing strategy will be to check to see that the service has
requested the right URL, and once we've responded with mock data we want
to verify that it returns that same data.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing HTTP Requests Using MockBackend

To unit test our services, we don't want to make actual HTTP requests.
To accomplish this, we need to mock out our HTTP services. Angular
provides us with a `MockBackend` class that can be configured to provide
mock responses to our requests, without actually making a network
request.

The configured `MockBackend` can then be injected into HTTP, so any
calls to the service, such as `http.get` will return our expected data,
allowing us to test our service in isolation from real network traffic.

*wikisearch.spec.ts*

```javascript
    import {
      fakeAsync,
      inject,
      TestBed
    } from '@angular/core/testing';
    import {
      HttpModule,
      XHRBackend,
      ResponseOptions,
      Response,
      RequestMethod
    } from '@angular/http';
    import {
      MockBackend,
      MockConnection
    } from '@angular/http/testing/mock_backend';
    
    import {SearchWiki} from './wikisearch.service';
    
    const mockResponse = {
      "batchcomplete": "",
      "continue": {
        "sroffset": 10,
        "continue": "-||"
      },
      "query": {
        "searchinfo": {
          "totalhits": 36853
        },
        "search": [{
          "ns": 0,
          "title": "Stuff",
          "snippet": "<span></span>",
          "size": 1906,
          "wordcount": 204,
          "timestamp": "2016-06-10T17:25:36Z"
        }]
      }
    };
    
    describe('Wikipedia search service', () => {
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
          imports: [HttpModule],
          providers: [
            {
              provide: XHRBackend,
              useClass: MockBackend
            },
            SearchWiki
          ]
        });
      });
    
      it('should get search results', fakeAsync(
        inject([
          XHRBackend,
          SearchWiki
        ], (mockBackend: XHRBackend, searchWiki: SearchWiki) => {
    
          const expectedUrl = 'https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?' +
            'action=query&list=search&srsearch=Angular';
    
          mockBackend.connections.subscribe(
            (connection: MockConnection) => {
              expect(connection.request.method).toBe(RequestMethod.Get);
              expect(connection.request.url).toBe(expectedUrl);
    
              connection.mockRespond(new Response(
                new ResponseOptions({ body: mockResponse })
              ));
            });
    
          searchWiki.search('Angular')
            .subscribe(res => {
              expect(res).toEqual(mockResponse);
            });
        })
      ));
    
      it('should set foo with a 1s delay', fakeAsync(
        inject([SearchWiki], (searchWiki: SearchWiki) => {
          searchWiki.setFoo('food');
          tick(1000);
          expect(searchWiki.foo).toEqual('food');
        })
      ));
    
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-102-testing-http-requests)

We use `inject` to inject the `SearchWiki` service and the `MockBackend`
into our test. We then wrap our entire test with a call to `fakeAsync`,
which will be used to control the asynchronous behavior of the
`SearchWiki` service for testing.

Next, we `subscribe` to any incoming connections from our back-end. This
gives us access to an object `MockConnection`, which allows us to
configure the response we want to send out from our back-end, as well as
test any incoming requests from the service we're testing.

In our example, we want to verify that the `SearchWiki`'s search method
makes a GET request to the correct URL. This is accomplished by looking
at the request object we get when our `SearchWiki` service makes a
connection to our mock back-end. Analyzing the `request.url` property we
can see if its value is what we expect it to be. Here we are only
checking the URL, but in other scenarios we can see if certain headers
have been set, or if certain POST data has been sent.

Now, using the `MockConnection` object we mock in some arbitrary data.
We create a new `ResponseOptions` object where we can configure the
properties of our response. This follows the format of a regular
[Angular Response
class](https://angular.io/docs/js/latest/api/http/Response-class.html).
Here we have simply set the `body` property to that of a basic search
result set you might see from Wikipedia. We could have also set things
like cookies, HTTP headers, etc., or set the `status` value to a non-200
state to test how our service responds to errors. Once we have our
`ResponseOptions` configured we create a new instance of a `Respond`
object and tell our back-end to start using this as a response by
calling `.mockRespond`.

It is possible to use multiple responses. Say your service had two
possible GET requests - one for `/api/users`, and another
`/api/users/1`. Each of these requests has a different corresponding set
of mock data. When receiving a new connection through the `MockBackend`
subscription, you can check to see what type of URL is being requested
and respond with whatever set of mock data makes sense.

Finally, we can test the `search` method of the `SearchWiki` service by
calling it and subscribing to the result. Once our search process has
finished, we check the result object to see if it contains the same data
that we mocked into our back-end. If it is, then congratulations, your
test has passed.

In the `should set foo with a 1s delay` test, you will notice that we
call `tick(1000)` which simulates a 1 second delay.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Alternative HTTP Mocking Strategy

An alternative to using `MockBackend` is to create our own light mocks.
Here we create an object and then tell TypeScript to treat it as `Http`
using type assertion. We then create a spy for its `get` method and
return an observable similar to what the real `Http` service would do.

This method still allows us to check to see that the service has
requested the right URL, and that it returns that expected data.

*wikisearch.spec.ts*

```javascript
    import {
      fakeAsync,
      inject,
      TestBed
    } from '@angular/core/testing';
    import {
      HttpModule,
      Http,
      ResponseOptions,
      Response
    } from '@angular/http';
    import { Observable } from 'rxjs';
    import 'rxjs/add/observable/of';
    import {SearchWiki} from './wikisearch.service';
    
    const mockResponse = {
      "batchcomplete": "",
      "continue": {
        "sroffset": 10,
        "continue": "-||"
      },
      "query": {
        "searchinfo": {
          "totalhits": 36853
        },
        "search": [{
          "ns": 0,
          "title": "Stuff",
          "snippet": "<span></span>",
          "size": 1906,
          "wordcount": 204,
          "timestamp": "2016-06-10T17:25:36Z"
        }]
      }
    };
    
    describe('Wikipedia search service', () => {
      let mockHttp: Http;
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        mockHttp = { get: null } as Http;
    
        spyOn(mockHttp, 'get').and.returnValue(Observable.of({
          json: () => mockResponse
        }));
    
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
          imports: [HttpModule],
          providers: [
            {
              provide: Http,
              useValue: mockHttp
            },
            SearchWiki
          ]
        });
      });
    
      it('should get search results', fakeAsync(
        inject([SearchWiki], searchWiki => {
          const expectedUrl = 'https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?' +
            'action=query&list=search&srsearch=Angular';
    
          searchWiki.search('Angular')
            .subscribe(res => {
              expect(mockHttp.get).toHaveBeenCalledWith(expectedUrl);
              expect(res).toEqual(mockResponse);
            });
        })
      ));
    
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-103-testing-http-requests-2)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing JSONP and XHR Back-Ends

Some services take advantage of the JSONP or XHR module to fetch data
instead of the traditional HTTP module. We use the same strategies for
testing these services - create a mock back-end, initialize the service
and test to see if the request our service made is correct and if the
data mocked through the back-end makes its way successfully to the
service. Fortunately services that rely on the XHR module are tested
*exactly* the same way as services that use the HTTP module. The only
difference is in which class is used to mock the back-end. In services
that use the HTTP module, the `MockBackend` class is used; in those that
use XHR, the `XHRBackend` is used instead. Everything else remains the
same.

Unfortunately services that use the JSONP module use a significantly
different class for mocking the back-end. The class `MockBrowserJsonp`
is used for this scenario.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Executing Tests Asynchronously

Since services operate in an asynchronous manner it may be useful to
execute a service's entire unit test asynchronously. This can speed up
the overall time it takes to complete a full testing cycle since a
particular long unit test will not block other unit tests from
executing. We can set up our unit test to return a promise, which will
resolve as either a success or failure depending on the activity of the
test.

```javascript
    describe('verify search', () => {
      it('searches for the correct term',
        fakeAsync(inject([SearchWiki, MockBackend], (searchWiki, mockBackend) => {
            return new Promise((pass, fail) => {
              ...
            });
        })));
    });
```

Instead of only using `inject`, we use `fakeAsync` to wrap it and
fulfill dependencies and execute the test in an asynchronous process.
Using `fakeAsync` requires us to return a Promise, which we use to
resolve the competition of our test by calling `pass`, or `fail`,
depending on the results of our test.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing Simple Actions

Consider the following simple actions, from the Redux chapter of this
book:

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { NgRedux } from 'ng2-redux';
    
    export const INCREMENT_COUNTER = 'INCREMENT_COUNTER';
    export const DECREMENT_COUNTER = 'DECREMENT_COUNTER';
    
    @Injectable
    export class CounterActions {
      constructor(private redux: NgRedux<any>) {}
    
      increment() {
        this.redux.dispatch({ type: INCREMENT_COUNTER });
      }
    
      decrement() {
        this.redux.dispatch({ type: DECREMENT_COUNTER });
      }
    }
```

These are pretty straightforward to test:

```javascript
    import { NgRedux } from 'ng2-redux';
    import {
      CounterActions,
      INCREMENT_COUNTER,
      DECREMENT_COUNTER,
    } from './counter';
    
    // Mock out the NgRedux class with just enough to test what we want.
    class MockRedux extends NgRedux<any> {
      constructor() {
        super(null);
      }
      dispatch = () => undefined;
    }
    
    describe('counter action creators', () => {
      let actions: CounterActions;
      let mockRedux: NgRedux<any>;
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        // Initialize mock NgRedux and create a new instance of the
        // ActionCreatorService to be tested.
        mockRedux = new MockRedux();
        actions = new CounterActions(mockRedux);
      });
    
      it('increment should dispatch INCREMENT_COUNTER action', () => {
        const expectedAction = {
          type: INCREMENT_COUNTER
        };
    
        spyOn(mockRedux, 'dispatch');
        actions.increment();
    
        expect(mockRedux.dispatch).toHaveBeenCalled();
        expect(mockRedux.dispatch).toHaveBeenCalledWith(expectedAction);
      });
    
      it('decrement should dispatch DECREMENT_COUNTER action', () => {
        const expectedAction = {
          type: DECREMENT_COUNTER
        };
    
        spyOn(mockRedux, 'dispatch');
        actions.decrement();
    
        expect(mockRedux.dispatch).toHaveBeenCalled();
        expect(mockRedux.dispatch).toHaveBeenCalledWith(expectedAction);
      });
    });
```

We just make sure that our action creators do indeed dispatch the
correct actions.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing Complex Actions

Things get a little trickier when we want to test asynchronous or
conditional action creators. Our goal is still the same: make sure that
our operations are dispatching the actions we're expecting.

## A Conditional Action

Consider the following conditional action (i.e., one that is fired
depending on current state):

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { NgRedux } from 'ng2-redux';
    export const INCREMENT_COUNTER = 'INCREMENT_COUNTER';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class MyActionService {
      constructor(private redux: NgRedux) {};
    
      // A conditional action
      incrementIfOdd() {
        const { counter } = this.redux.getState();
    
        if (counter % 2 === 0) return;
        this.redux.dispatch({ type: INCREMENT_COUNTER });
      }
    }
```

Unit testing is similar to before, but we need to mock our state as well
as dispatch:

```javascript
    import { NgRedux } from 'ng2-redux';
    import { CounterActions } from './counter';
    
    class MockRedux extends NgRedux<any> {
      constructor(private state: any) {
        super(null);
      }
      dispatch = () => undefined;
      getState = () => this.state;
    }
    
    describe('counter action creators', () => {
      let actions: CounterActions;
      let mockRedux: NgRedux<any>;
      let mockState: any = {};
    
      beforeEach(() => {
        // Our mock NgRedux can now accept mock state as a constructor param.
        mockRedux = new MockRedux(mockState);
        actions = new CounterActions(mockRedux);
      });
    
      it('incrementIfOdd should dispatch INCREMENT_COUNTER action if count is odd',
        () => {
          // Our tests can bake in the initial state they need.
          const expectedAction = {
            type: CounterActions.INCREMENT_COUNTER
          };
    
          mockState.counter = 3;
          spyOn(mockRedux, 'dispatch');
          actions.incrementIfOdd();
    
          expect(mockRedux.dispatch).toHaveBeenCalled();
          expect(mockRedux.dispatch).toHaveBeenCalledWith(expectedAction);
        });
    
      it('incrementIfOdd should not dispatch INCREMENT_COUNTER action if count is even',
        () => {
          mockState.counter = 2;
          spyOn(mockRedux, 'dispatch');
          actions.incrementIfOdd();
    
          expect(mockRedux.dispatch).not.toHaveBeenCalled();
        });
    });
```

## An Async Action

What about async actions like the following?

```javascript
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
    import { NgRedux } from 'ng2-redux';
    
    export const INCREMENT_COUNTER = 'INCREMENT_COUNTER';
    export const DECREMENT_COUNTER = 'DECREMENT_COUNTER';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class CounterActions {
      constructor(private redux: NgRedux<any>) {}
    
      // ...
    
      incrementAsync(timeInMs = 1000) {
        this.delay(timeInMs).then(() => this.redux.dispatch({ type: INCREMENT_COUNTER }));
      }
    
      private delay(timeInMs) {
        return new Promise((resolve,reject) => {
          setTimeout(() => resolve() , timeInMs);
        });
      }
    }
```

We can test this using the normal techniques for async service
functions:

  - If we can make `incrementAsync` return a promise, we can just return
    a promise from the test and `jasmine` will wait until it settles.
  - Alternately, we can use the `fakeAsync` technique discussed in the
    section on testing components.

The thing to remember is that if we follow the ActionCreatorService
pattern, our actions are just functions on an Angular service. So we can
mock out NgRedux (and any other dependencies) and just test it as we
would any other Angular service.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing Reducers

Luckily, testing reducers is a lot like testing our synchronous action
creators, since all reducer operations are synchronous. This plays a big
role in making our global state easy to keep track of, which is why
we're big fans of Redux.

We'll test the counter reducer in
[angular2-redux-starter](https://github.com/rangle/angular2-redux-starter),
as follows:

```javascript
    export default function counter(state = 0, action)
      switch (action.type) {
        case INCREMENT_COUNTER:
          return state + 1;
        case DECREMENT_COUNTER:
          return state - 1;
        default:
          return state;
      }
    }
```

As you can see, there are three cases to test: the default case, the
increment and the decrement. We want to test that our actions trigger
the state changes we expect from the
    reducer.

```javascript
    import { INCREMENT_COUNTER, DECREMENT_COUNTER } from '../actions/counter';
    import counter from './counter';                                         
    
    describe('counter reducers', () => {                                     
      it('should handle initial state', () => {                              
        expect(                                                         
          counter(undefined, {})                                             
        )                                                                    
        .toEqual(0)                                                         
      });                                                                    
    
      it('should handle INCREMENT_COUNTER', () => {                          
        expect(                                                         
          counter(0, {                                                       
            type: INCREMENT_COUNTER                                          
          })                                                                 
        )                                                                    
        .toEqual(1)                                                         
      });                                                                    
    
      it('should handle DECREMENT_COUNTER', () => {                          
        expect(                                                         
          counter(1, {                                                       
            type: DECREMENT_COUNTER                                          
          })                                                                 
        )                                                                    
        .toEqual(0)                                                         
      });                                                                    
    });
```

Note that we're only testing the section of Redux state that the
`counter` reducer is responsible for, and not the whole. We can see from
these tests that Redux is largely built on pure functions.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Afterthoughts

The examples outlined above are just one approach to unit testing in
Redux. During actual development it might prove to be too costly to
maintain tests for every action and reducer, and in some cases even
trivial (i.e. should I be paranoid about this JSON object with one
property being returned?).

Another approach we've tried is to treat the overall state change in the
store triggered by an action (or by a series of actions) as a single
unit - in the Redux world reducers don't function without actions and
vice versa, so why separate them? This leaves more flexibility when
making changes to actions and reducers without losing scope of what
Redux is doing for our app.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Upgrading to Angular 1.3+ Style

The first step of any migration is to upgrade the codebases style to
conform to Angular 1.3+ style, ideally an Angular 1.5+ style. This
means:

  - All controllers should be in `controllerAs` form, and ideally should
    only exist on directives

  - Use directives, specifically "component directives", that use the
    following properties:
    
      - `restrict: 'E'`
      - `scope: {}`
      - `bindToController: {}`
      - `controllerAs`
      - `template` or `templateUrl`
      - `transclude` (optional)
      - `require` (optional)

  - Component directives should *not* use the following attributes:
    
      - `compile`
      - `replace: true`
      - `priority`/`terminal`

  - Ideally have one component, or one *thing* per file

  - Ideally have folders organized by feature

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Using Webpack

Using a module loader like webpack is essential for migrating to
Angular, and should already be part of every modern programmer's tool
set. Webpack will make it easy to manage all the different files that a
modern, modular Angular 1.3+ project prescribes. This includes bundling
the application for distribution or deployment.

Using webpack will also simplify a programmer's Angular workflow, since
the easiest way to work with Angular is with TypeScript, or ES6, neither
of which works natively in contemporary browsers.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Migrating to TypeScript

TypeScript is a superset of ES6 and, as its name suggests, uses a type
system. This can have an enormous impact on developer tools, providing
richer auto-complete and static analysis.

Angular was built using TypeScript, and supports decorators which
provide meta information to Angular. While it is possible to use Angular
without these features, the syntax feels more "natural" with
TypeScript's decorators.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Choosing an Upgrade Path

There are three ways to upgrade from Angular 1 to 2:

  - Total conversion
  - ng-upgrade
  - ng-metadata

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Total Conversion

Completely converting an application from Angular 1 to Angular 2 is
technically possible, but really only suitable for the smallest
applications. Even small applications can be tricky to totally convert
if they're not well structured.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Bootstrapping ng-metadata

ng-metadata provides
[`@NgModule`](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/core/index/NgModule-interface.html)
from Angular 2 to Angular 1. To use `@NgModule`, update your application
bootstrap from `angular.bootstrap` to the example
    below.

## Bootstrap (bootstrap.ts)

```javascript
    import { platformBrowserDynamic } from 'ng-metadata/platform-browser-dynamic';
    import { AppModule } from './app.module';
    
    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);
```

## App Module (app.module.ts)

```javascript
    import { NgModule } from 'ng-metadata/core';
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
    import { HeroComponent } from './hero.component';
    import { HeroService } from './hero.service';
    
    @NgModule({
      declarations: [AppComponent, HeroComponent],
      providers: [HeroService]
    })
    export class AppModule {}
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Components and Services

ng-metadata lets us write code in an Angular style. Components written
in this style are prime candidates for an eventual upgrade using
ng-upgrade.

## Components

Components use `@Component` from ng-metadata. Lifecycle hooks similar to
those in Angular should work with
    ng-metadata.

```javascript
    import { Component, Inject, Input, Output, EventEmitter, OnInit } from 'ng-metadata/core';
    import { HeroService } from './hero.service';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'hero',
      templateUrl: './hero.component.html'
    })
    export class HeroComponent implements OnInit {
      @Input() name: string;
      @Output() call = new EventEmitter<void>();
    
      // Services can be included using `@Inject` or by their class literal
      constructor(
        @Inject('$log') private $log: ng.ILogService,
        private heroSvc: HeroService
      ){
      }
    
      ngOnInit() {
        console.log('Component initialized');
      }
    }
```

## Services

Services use `@Injectable` from ng-metadata. This decorator is written
preceding a TypeScript class. Angular 1 services can be added by using
the `@Inject` decorator in the service constructor.

```javascript
    import { Injectable, Inject } from 'ng-metadata/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class HeroService {
      constructor(@Inject('$http') private $http: ng.IHttpService){
      }
    
      fetchAll(){
        return this.$http.get('/api/heroes');
      }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Order of Operations

Migrating a large Angular 1 application to Angular 2 can be a big
undertaking. We recommend the following order of operations during
conversion.

  - Webpack
  - TypeScript
  - Move as much code as possible into pure TypeScript modules
      - Write framework-agnostic unit tests for that code
      - Good candidates for this are stateless services
  - Enable ngUpgrade
      - If used, replace the `ng-app` directive with
        `angular.bootstrap`.
      - Create `UpgradeAdapter` singleton and replace "bootstrap".
  - Identify *components* (directives) of the app most likely to benefit
    from Angular 2
      - These could be parts of the app where performance is a problem,
        parts where there will be more active development or parts that
        could really benefit from Angular 2 libraries or components.
  - Convert all service dependencies from Angular 1 to Angular 2
      - Move existing `.factory` Angular services to `.service`
      - Leverage TypeScript classes
      - Use `upgradeAdapter.downgradeNg2Provider(ServiceName)` to expose
        Angular 2 service to Angular 1
  - Repeat this process until all components have been converted to
    Angular 2

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Replacing Services with TypeScript Classes

Early Angular 1 applications predate the widespread use of module
loaders. The strategy of this era was to concatenate source files and
rely on Angular 1's dependency injection as a poor-man's module loader.
Often services were used to house *libraries* instead of *stateful
services*.

During conversion, we will introduce Webpack as a module loader. For
services that lack state and don't heavily rely on other dependency
injected services, we recommend rewriting them using TypeScript modules.
The advantages of writing code this way are:

  - It becomes framework agnostic (doesn't rely on Angular 1 explicitly)
  - It is easier to test
  - It instantly works with both Angular 1 and Angular 2

Even services that depend on a limited set of Angular 1 services (e.g.
`$http`) can be rewritten by depending on other libraries (e.g.
`window.fetch`).

## How do we get there?

  - Convert services using `.factory` to `.service`
      - Angular 2's `@Injectable` expects an object it can use `new`
        with, similar to how `.service` works (e.g. `new
        CalculatorService()`)
  - Replace constructor functions with TypeScript `class`
  - Use the class directly by `export`ing it.

## Example

### `.factory` original

```javascript
    angular.module('calcapp', [])
      .factory('CalculatorService', function () {
        return {
          square: function (a) {
            return a*a;
          },
          cube: function (a) {
            return a*a*a;
          }
        };
      });
```

### Conversion to `.service`

```javascript
    angular.module('calcapp', [])
      .service('CalculatorService', function () {
        this.square = function (a) {
          return a*a;
        };
    
        this.cube = function (a) {
          return a*a*a;
        }
      });
```

### Conversion to TypeScript class

```javascript
    class CalculatorService {
      square (a) {
        return a*a;
      }
    
      cube (a) {
        return a*a*a;
      }
    }
    
    angular.module('calcapp', [])
      .service('CalculatorService', CalculatorService);
```

### Skip the middleman

```javascript
    export class CalculatorService { ... }
    
    // elsewhere
    import {CalculatorService} from './calculator.service';
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Bootstrapping ng-upgrade

  - Use manual Angular 1.x bootstrapping, and remove
    `ng-app`/`ng-strict-di` references if they exist
  - Add Angular 2 dependencies
  - Add the upgrade adapter `import {UpgradeAdapter} from
    '@angular/upgrade'`
  - Call the upgrade adapter's bootstrap

Once this is working the foundation is set for transitioning from
Angular 1.x to Angular 2. It is important to note that the upgrade
adapter's bootstrap mechanism is asynchronous. Additionally it's
important to treat the upgrade adapter as a singleton.

The following file creates an instance of `UpgradeAdapter` and exports
it.

```javascript
    // Angular 2 Vendor Import
    import {UpgradeAdapter} from '@angular/upgrade';
    import {NgModule, forwardRef} from '@angular/core';
    import {BrowserModule} from '@angular/platform-browser';
    
    // Instantiate an adapter with the AppModule
    // Use forwardRef to pass AppModule reference at runtime
    export const upgradeAdapter = new UpgradeAdapter(forwardRef(() => AppModule));
    
    @NgModule({
      declarations: [],
      providers: [],
      imports: [BrowserModule]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    }
```

The following file bootstraps an Angular 1/2 hybrid application:

```javascript
    // Import the upgradeAdapter singleton
    import {upgradeAdapter} from './upgrade-adapter';
    
    // Name the application
    const APPNAME = 'angular-upgrade-example';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular.module(APPNAME, []);
    
    // Bootstrap Angular 2 - *note* this is asynchronous
    upgradeAdapter.bootstrap(document.body, [APPNAME], {strictDi: true});
```

The above example does not actually do anything other than bootstrap an
empty application.

## Upgrading/Downgrading Components

Once bootstrapping is complete, Angular 1.x components can be *upgraded*
to work with Angular 2. Conversely, Angular 2 components can be
*downgraded* to work with Angular 1.x.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Downgrading Components

Upgrading components sounds like it should happen before downgrading,
but the point of upgrading is to make an Angular 1.x component work with
Angular 2. For an Angular 2 component to use an Angular 1.x component in
an ng-upgrade application there must first be a downgraded Angular 2
component. Consequently it's important to first learn how to downgrade
Angular 2 components to work with Angular 1.x

All downgraded components operate like Angular 1.x `'E'` element
directives.

Here is an example of a very simple Angular 2 component:

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'a2-downgrade',
      template: '<p>{{ message }}</p>'
    })
    export class A2DowngradeComponent {
      message = `What you're seeing here is an Angular2 component ` +
        `running in an Angular1 app!`;
    }
```

Registering the downgraded component with Angular 1.x:

```javascript
    // Angular 1 Vendor Import
    import * as angular from 'angular';
    
    // Import the upgradeAdapter singleton
    import {upgradeAdapter} from './upgrade-adapter';
    
    // Angular 2 component from above
    import {A2DowngradeComponent} from './components/a2-downgrade';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular
      .module(APPNAME)
      .directive('a2Downgrade',
        upgradeAdapter.downgradeNg2Component(A2DowngradeComponent));
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Upgrading Components

The only Angular 1.x components that can be upgraded and used in Angular
2 code are those that *strictly* follow the component pattern outlined
at the top of this document. Wherever possible use Angular 1.5+'s
`.component`.

Here is an Angular 1.x directive that conforms to ng-upgrade's
"component directive"
    specification:

```javascript
    angular.module('app').directive('a1Upgradable', function a1UpgradableDirective() {
      return {
        restrict: 'E',
        scope: {},
        bindToController: {},
        controller: Upgradable,
        controllerAs: 'a1Upgradable',
        template: `<span>{{ a1Upgradable.message }}</span>`
      };
    });
    
    class Upgradable {
      message = 'I am an Angular 1 Directive';
    }
```

Equivalently this can be written using `.component` in Angular 1.5+:

```javascript
    angular.module('app').component('a1Upgradable', {
      controller: Upgradable,
      template: `<span>{{ a1Upgradable.message }}</span>`
    });
    
    class Upgradable {
      message = 'I am an Angular 1 Directive';
    }
```

Below is an Angular 2 component that will use the upgraded Angular 1.x
directive:

```javascript
    import {upgradeAdapter} from '../upgrade-adapter';
    import {A2UsingA1Component} from './a2-using-a1.component';
    
    @NgModule({
      declarations: [upgradeAdapter.upgradeNg1Component('a1Upgradable'), A2UsingA1Component],
      providers: [],
      imports: [BrowserModule]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    }
```

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'a2-using-a1',
      template: `<p>{{ message }}<a1-upgradable></a1-upgradable></p>`
    })
    export class A2UsingA1Component {
      message = 'Angular 2 Using Angular 1: ';
    }
```

Finally, let Angular 1.x know about the directive:

```javascript
    import {a1UpgradableDirective} from './components/a1-upgradable';
    
    // Angular 1 Vendor Import
    import * as angular from 'angular';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular
      .module(APPNAME)
      .directive('a1Upgradable', a1UpgradableDirective)
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Projecting Angular 1 Content into Angular 2 Components

In Angular 2 the concept of "transclusion" has been replaced by the
concept of projection. ng-upgrade provides mechanisms for
projecting/transcluding Angular 1.x content into Angular 2 components:

This is what a simple Angular 2 component that supports projection looks
like:

```javascript
    import {Component, Input} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'a2-projection',
      template: `
      <p>
        Angular 2 Outer Component (Top)
        <ng-content></ng-content>
        Angular 2 Outer Component (Bottom)
      </p>
      `
    })
    export class A2Projection { }
```

Here's a very simple Angular 1.x directive that will be projected into
the Angular 2 component:

```javascript
    export function a1ProjectionContentsDirective() {
      return {
        restrict: 'E',
        scope: {},
        bindToController: {},
        controller: A1ProjectionContents,
        controllerAs: 'a1ProjectionContents',
        template: `<p>{{ a1ProjectionContents.message }}</p>`
      };
    }
    
    class A1ProjectionContents {
      message = 'I am an Angular 1 Directive "projected" into Angular 2';
    }
```

Both the component and the directive must be registered with Angular
1.x:

```javascript
    import {A2Projection} from './components/a2-projection';
    import {a1ProjectionContentsDirective} from
      './components/a1-projection-contents';
    
    // Angular 1 Vendor Import
    import * as angular from 'angular';
    
    // Import the upgradeAdapter singleton
    import {upgradeAdapter} from './upgrade-adapter';
    
    // Name the application
    const APPNAME = 'angular-upgrade-example';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular
      .module(APPNAME)
      .directive('a2Projection',
        upgradeAdapter.downgradeNg2Component(A2Projection))
      .directive('a1ProjectionContent', a1ProjectionContentsDirective);
```

Finally, using the HTML selectors is as simple as:

```javascript
    <a2-projection>
      <a1-projection-content></a1-projection-content>
    </a2-projection>
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Transcluding Angular 2 Components into Angular 1 Directives

Angular 2 components can be transcluded into Angular 1.x directives.

Here is a very simple Angular 2 component:

```javascript
    import {Component} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Component ({
      selector: 'a2-transclusion-contents',
      template: `<p>{{ message }}</p>`
    })
    export class A2Transclusion {
      message =
        'I am an Angular 2 Component "transcluded" into Angular 1.x';
    }
```

Here is an Angular 1.x directive that supports transclusion:

```javascript
    export function a1TransclusionDirective() {
      return {
        restrict: 'E',
        transclude: true,
        scope: {},
        bindToController: {},
        controller: A1Transclusion,
        controllerAs: 'a1ProjectionContents',
        template: `
        <p>
          <ng-transclude></ng-transclude>
        </p>
        `
      };
    }
    
    class A1Transclusion {
    }
```

Angular 1.x needs to know about both the component and the
    directive:

```javascript
    import {A2Transclusion} from './components/a2-transclusion-contents';
    import {a1TransclusionDirective} from './components/a1-transclusion';
    
    // Angular 1 Vendor Import
    import * as angular from 'angular';
    
    // Import the upgradeAdapter singleton
    import {upgradeAdapter} from './upgrade-adapter';
    
    // Name the application
    const APPNAME = 'angular-upgrade-example';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular
      .module(APPNAME)
      .directive('a2TransclusionContents',
        upgradeAdapter.downgradeNg2Component(A2Transclusion))
      .directive('a1Transclusion', a1TransclusionDirective);
```

Finally, Angular 2 content can be transcluded into Angular 1.x like so:

```javascript
    <a1-transclude>
      <a2-transclusion-contents></a2-transclusion-contents>
    </a1-transclude>
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Injecting Across Frameworks

Angular 1.x providers/services can be upgraded and injected into Angular
2.

Simple Angular 1.x service:

```javascript
    export class A1UpgradeService {
      data = 'Hello from Angular 1 service';
    }
```

Simple Angular 2 component that will have an Angular 1.x service
injected into it:

```javascript
    import {Component, Inject} from  '@angular/core';
    import {A1UpgradeService} from '../services/a1-upgrade-service';
    
    @Component({
      selector: 'a2-using-a1-service',
      template: `<p>{{ message }}</p>`
    })
    export class A2UsingA1Service {
      message = '';
      constructor(@Inject('a1UpgradeService') a1UpgradeService:A1UpgradeService) {
        this.message = a1UpgradeService.data;
      }
    }
```

Attaching everything to Angular 1.x:

```javascript
    import {A2UsingA1Service} from './components/a2-using-a1-service';
    import {A1UpgradeService} from './services/a1-upgrade-service';
    
    // Angular 1 Vendor Import
    import * as angular from 'angular';
    
    // Import the upgradeAdapter singleton
    import {upgradeAdapter} from './upgrade-adapter';
    
    // Name the application
    const APPNAME = 'angular-upgrade-example';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular
      .module(APPNAME)
      .directive('a2UsingA1Service',
        upgradeAdapter.downgradeNg2Component(A2UsingA1Service))
      .service('a1UpgradeService', A1UpgradeService);
```

Angular 2.x services can be downgraded and injected into Angular 1. In
normal operation, Angular 2.x services would be bootstrapped with the
application, but because of ng-upgrade being a hybrid mode, this is not
the case. The upgrade adapter comes with an `addProvider` method that
must be used in the interim.

Here is a very simple Angular 2 service:

```javascript
    import {Injectable} from '@angular/core';
    
    @Injectable()
    export class A2DowngradeService {
      fetchData() {
        return 'some data';
      }
    }
```

Since Angular 2 is bootstrapped with the upgrade adapter, there is no
place to register Angular 2 services. Fortunately the upgrade adapter's
`addProvider` method can do this:

```javascript
    upgradeAdapter.addProvider(Phones);
```

Lastly, Angular 1.x must be informed about the Angular 2 service:

```javascript
    // The service to downgrade
    import {A2DowngradeService} from './services/a2-downgrade'
    
    // Angular 1 Vendor Import
    import * as angular from 'angular';
    
    // Import the upgradeAdapter singleton
    import {upgradeAdapter} from './upgrade-adapter';
    
    // Name the application
    const APPNAME = 'angular-upgrade-example';
    
    // Register classic Angular 1 modules
    angular
      .module(APPNAME)
      .factory('a2DowngradeService',
        upgradeAdapter.downgradeNg2Provider(A2DowngradeService));
```

Using this downgraded service in an Angular 1.x directive is as simple
as:

```javascript
    import {A2DowngradeService} from '../services/a2-downgrade';
    
    export function a1UsingA2ServiceDirective() {
      return {
        restrict: 'E',
        scope: {},
        bindToController: {},
        controller: A1UsingA2,
        controllerAs: 'a1UsingA2',
        template: `<span>{{ a1UsingA2.message }}</span>`
      };
    }
    
    class A1UsingA2 {
      message: string;
      constructor(private a2DowngradeService: A2DowngradeService) {
        this.message = this.a2DowngradeService.fetchData();
      }
    }
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Webpack

A modern JavaScript web application includes a lot of different packages
and dependencies, and it's important to have something that makes sense
of it all in a simple way.

Angular takes the approach of breaking your application apart into many
different components, each of which can have several files. Separating
application logic this way is good for the programmer, but can detract
from user experience since doing this can increase page loading time.
HTTP2 aims to solve this problem in one way, but until more is known
about its effects we will want to bundle different parts of our
application together and compress it.

Our platform, the browser, must continue to provide backwards
compatibility for all existing code and this necessitates slow movement
of additions to the base functionality of HTML/CSS/JS. The community has
created different tools that transform their preferred syntax/feature
set to what the browser supports to avoid binding themselves to the
constraints of the web platform. This is especially evident in Angular
applications, where [TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org/) is used
heavily. Although we don't do this in our course, projects may also
involve different CSS preprocessors (sass, stylus) or templating engines
(jade, Mustache, EJS) that must be integrated.

Webpack solves these problems by providing a common interface to
integrate all of these tools and that allows us to streamline our
workflow and avoid complexity.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Installation

The most common way to use webpack is through the CLI. By default,
running the command executes `webpack.config.js` which is the
configuration file for your webpack setup.

## Bundle

The core concept of webpack is the *bundle*. A bundle is simply a
collection of modules, where we define the boundaries for how they are
separated. In this project, we have two bundles:

  - `app` for our application-specific client-side logic
  - `vendor` for third party libraries

In webpack, bundles are configured through *entry points*. Webpack goes
through each entry point one by one. It maps out a dependency graph by
going through each module's references. All the dependencies that it
encounters are then packaged into that bundle.

Packages installed through NPM are referenced using *CommonJS* module
resolution. In a JavaScript file, this would look like:

```javascript 
  const app = require('./src/index.ts');
```

or TypeScript/ES6 file:

```javascript 
  import { Component } from '@angular/core';
```

We will use those string values as the module names we pass to webpack.

Let's look at the entry points we have defined in our sample app:

```javascript 
    {
      ...
      entry: {
        app: './src/index.ts',
        vendor: [
          '@angular/core',
          '@angular/compiler',
          '@angular/common',
          '@angular/http',
          '@angular/platform-browser',
          '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic',
          '@angular/router',
          'es6-shim',
          'redux',
          'redux-thunk',
          'redux-logger',
          'reflect-metadata',
          'ng2-redux',
          'zone.js',
        ]
      }
      ...
    }
``` 

The entry point for `app`, `./src/index.ts`, is the base file of our
Angular application. If we've defined the dependencies of each module
correctly, those references should connect all the parts of our
application from here. The entry point for `vendor` is a list of modules
that we need for our application code to work correctly. Even if these
files are referenced by some module in our app bundle, we want to
separate these resources in a bundle just for third party code.

## Output Configuration

In most cases we don't just want to configure how webpack generates
bundles - we also want to configure how those bundles are output.

  - Often, we will want to re-route where files are saved. For example
    into a `bin` or `dist` folder. This is because we want to optimize
    our builds for production.

  - Webpack transforms the code when bundling our modules and outputting
    them. We want to have a way of connecting the code that's been
    generated by webpack and the code that we've written.

  - Server routes can be configured in many different ways. We probably
    want some way of configuring webpack to take our server routing
    setup into consideration.

All of these configuration options are handled by the config's `output`
property. Let's look at how we've set up our config to address these
issues:

```javascript
    {
      ...
      output: {
        path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
        filename: '[name].[hash].js',
        publicPath: "/",
        sourceMapFilename: '[name].[hash].js.map'
      }
      ...
    }
```

> Some options have words wrapped in square brackets. Webpack has the
> ability to parse parameters for these properties, with each property
> having a different set of parameters available for substitution. Here,
> we're using `name` (the name of the bundle) and `hash` (a hash value
> of the bundle's content).

To save bundled files in a different folder, we use the `path` property.
Here, `path` tells webpack that all of the output files must be saved to
`path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')`. In our case, we save each bundle into
a separate file. The name of this file is specified by the `filename`
property.

Linking these bundled files and the files we've actually coded is done
using what's known as source maps. There are different ways to configure
source maps. What we want is to save these source maps in a separate
file specified by the `sourceMapFilename` property. The way the server
accesses the files might not directly follow the filesystem tree. For
us, we want to use the files saved under *dist* as the root folder for
our server. To let webpack know this, we've set the `publicPath`
property to `/`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Installation

The most common way to use webpack is through the CLI. By default,
running the command executes `webpack.config.js` which is the
configuration file for your webpack setup.

## Bundle

The core concept of webpack is the *bundle*. A bundle is simply a
collection of modules, where we define the boundaries for how they are
separated. In this project, we have two bundles:

  - `app` for our application-specific client-side logic
  - `vendor` for third party libraries

In webpack, bundles are configured through *entry points*. Webpack goes
through each entry point one by one. It maps out a dependency graph by
going through each module's references. All the dependencies that it
encounters are then packaged into that bundle.

Packages installed through NPM are referenced using *CommonJS* module
resolution. In a JavaScript file, this would look like:

``` 
  const app = require('./src/index.ts');
```

or TypeScript/ES6 file:

``` 
  import { Component } from '@angular/core';
```

We will use those string values as the module names we pass to webpack.

Let's look at the entry points we have defined in our sample app:

```javascript
    {
      ...
      entry: {
        app: './src/index.ts',
        vendor: [
          '@angular/core',
          '@angular/compiler',
          '@angular/common',
          '@angular/http',
          '@angular/platform-browser',
          '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic',
          '@angular/router',
          'es6-shim',
          'redux',
          'redux-thunk',
          'redux-logger',
          'reflect-metadata',
          'ng2-redux',
          'zone.js',
        ]
      }
      ...
    }
```
```

The entry point for `app`, `./src/index.ts`, is the base file of our
Angular application. If we've defined the dependencies of each module
correctly, those references should connect all the parts of our
application from here. The entry point for `vendor` is a list of modules
that we need for our application code to work correctly. Even if these
files are referenced by some module in our app bundle, we want to
separate these resources in a bundle just for third party code.

## Output Configuration

In most cases we don't just want to configure how webpack generates
bundles - we also want to configure how those bundles are output.

  - Often, we will want to re-route where files are saved. For example
    into a `bin` or `dist` folder. This is because we want to optimize
    our builds for production.

  - Webpack transforms the code when bundling our modules and outputting
    them. We want to have a way of connecting the code that's been
    generated by webpack and the code that we've written.

  - Server routes can be configured in many different ways. We probably
    want some way of configuring webpack to take our server routing
    setup into consideration.

All of these configuration options are handled by the config's `output`
property. Let's look at how we've set up our config to address these
issues:

```javascript
    {
      ...
      output: {
        path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
        filename: '[name].[hash].js',
        publicPath: "/",
        sourceMapFilename: '[name].[hash].js.map'
      }
      ...
    }
```

> Some options have words wrapped in square brackets. Webpack has the
> ability to parse parameters for these properties, with each property
> having a different set of parameters available for substitution. Here,
> we're using `name` (the name of the bundle) and `hash` (a hash value
> of the bundle's content).

To save bundled files in a different folder, we use the `path` property.
Here, `path` tells webpack that all of the output files must be saved to
`path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')`. In our case, we save each bundle into
a separate file. The name of this file is specified by the `filename`
property.

Linking these bundled files and the files we've actually coded is done
using what's known as source maps. There are different ways to configure
source maps. What we want is to save these source maps in a separate
file specified by the `sourceMapFilename` property. The way the server
accesses the files might not directly follow the filesystem tree. For
us, we want to use the files saved under *dist* as the root folder for
our server. To let webpack know this, we've set the `publicPath`
property to `/`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Loaders

TypeScript isn't core JavaScript so webpack needs a bit of extra help to
parse the `.ts` files. It does this through the use of *loaders*.
Loaders are a way of configuring how webpack transforms the outputs of
specific files in our bundles. Our `ts-loader` package is handling this
transformation for TypeScript files.

## Inline

Loaders can be configured – inline – when requiring/importing a module:

```javascript
    const app = require('ts!./src/index.ts');
```

The loader is specified by using the `!` character to separate the
module reference and the loader that it will be run through. More than
one loader can be used and those are separated with `!` in the same way.
Loaders are executed right to left.

```javascript
    const app = require('ts!tslint!./src/index.ts');
```

> Although the packages are named `ts-loader`, `tslint-loader`,
> `style-loader`, we don't need to include the `-loader` part in our
> config.

Be careful when configuring loaders this way – it couples implementation
details of different stages of your application together so it might not
be the right choice in a lot of cases.

## Webpack Config

The preferred method is to configure loaders through the
`webpack.config.js` file. For example, the TypeScript loader task will
look something like this:

```javascript
    {
      test: /\.ts$/,
      loader: 'ts-loader',
      exclude: /node_modules/
    }
```

This runs the typescript compiler which respects our configuration
settings as specified above. We want to be able to handle other files
and not just TypeScript files, so we need to specify a list of loaders.
This is done by creating an array of tasks.

Tasks specified in this array are chained. If a file matches multiple
conditions, it will be processed using each task in order.

```javascript
    {
      ...
      module: {
        rules: [
          { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'tslint' },
          { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'ts', exclude: /node_modules/ },
          { test: /\.html$/, loader: 'raw' },
          { test: /\.css$/, loader: 'style!css?sourceMap' },
          { test: /\.svg/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.eot/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.woff/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.woff2/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.ttf/, loader: 'url' },
        ],
        noParse: [ /zone\.js\/dist\/.+/, /angular2\/bundles\/.+/ ]
      }
      ...
    }
```

Each task has a few configuration options:

  - *test* - The file path must match this condition to be handled. This
    is commonly used to test file extensions eg. `/\.ts$/`.

  - *loader* - The loaders that will be used to transform the input.
    This follows the syntax specified above.

  - *exclude* - The file path must not match this condition to be
    handled. This is commonly used to exclude file folders, e.g.
    `/node_modules/`.

  - *include* - The file path must match this condition to be handled.
    This is commonly used to include file folders. eg.
    `path.resolve(__dirname, 'app/src')`.

### Pre-Loaders

The preLoaders array works just like the loaders array only it is a
separate task chain that is executed before the loaders task chain.

### Non JavaScript Assets

Webpack also allows us to load non JavaScript assets such as: CSS, SVG,
font files, etc. In order to attach these assets to our bundle we must
require/import them within our app modules. For example:

```javascript
    import './styles/style.css';
    
    // or
    
    const STYLES = require('./styles/style.css');
```

### Other Commonly Used Loaders

  - *raw-loader* - returns the file content as a string.

  - *url-loader* - returns a base64 encoded data URL if the file size is
    under a certain threshold, otherwise it just returns the file.

  - *css-loader* - resolves `@import` and `url` references in CSS files
    as modules.

  - *style-loader* - injects a style tag with the bundled CSS in the
    `<head>` tag.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Plugins

Plugins allow us to inject custom build steps during the bundling
process.

A commonly used plugin is the `html-webpack-plugin`. This allows us to
generate HTML files required for production. For example it can be used
to inject script tags for the output bundles.

```javascript
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
      template: './src/index.html',
      inject: 'body',
      minify: false
    });
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Summary

When we put everything together, our complete `webpack.config.js` file
looks something like this:

```javascript
    'use strict';
    
    const path = require("path");
    const webpack = require('webpack');
    const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin');
    
    const basePlugins = [
      new webpack.optimize.CommonsChunkPlugin('vendor', '[name].[hash].bundle.js'),
    
      new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
        template: './src/index.html',
        inject: 'body',
        minify: false
      })
    ];
    
    const envPlugins = {
        production: [
            new webpack.optimize.UglifyJsPlugin({
                compress: {
                    warnings: false
                }
            })
        ],
        development: []
    };
    
    const plugins = basePlugins.concat(envPlugins[process.env.NODE_ENV] || []);
    
    module.exports = {
      entry: {
        app: './src/index.ts',
        vendor: [
          '@angular/core',
          '@angular/compiler',
          '@angular/common',
          '@angular/http',
          '@angular/platform-browser',
          '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic',
          '@angular/router',
          'es6-shim',
          'redux',
          'redux-thunk',
          'redux-logger',
          'reflect-metadata',
          'ng2-redux',
          'zone.js',
        ]
      },
    
      output: {
        path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
        filename: '[name].[hash].js',
        publicPath: "/",
        sourceMapFilename: '[name].[hash].js.map'
      },
    
      devtool: 'source-map',
    
      resolve: {
        extensions: ['.webpack.js', '.web.js', '.ts', '.js']
      },
    
      plugins: plugins,
    
      module: {
        rules: [
          { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'tslint' },
          { test: /\.ts$/, loader: 'ts', exclude: /node_modules/ },
          { test: /\.html$/, loader: 'raw' },
          { test: /\.css$/, loader: 'style!css?sourceMap' },
          { test: /\.svg/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.eot/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.woff/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.woff2/, loader: 'url' },
          { test: /\.ttf/, loader: 'url' },
        ],
        noParse: [ /zone\.js\/dist\/.+/, /angular2\/bundles\/.+/ ]
      }
    }
```

## Going Further

Webpack also does things like hot code reloading and code optimization
which we haven't covered. For more information you can check out the
[official documentation](http://webpack.github.io/docs/). The source is
also available on [Github](https://github.com/webpack/webpack).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# NPM Scripts Integration

NPM allows us to define custom scripts in the `package.json` file. These
can then execute tasks using the NPM CLI.

We rely on these scripts to manage most of our project tasks and webpack
fits in as well.

The scripts are defined in the `scripts` property of the `package.json`
file. For example:

```javascript
    ...
      scripts: {
        "clean": "rimraf dist",
        "prebuild": "npm run clean",
        "build": "NODE_ENV=production webpack",
      }
    ...
```

NPM allows pre and post task binding by prepending the word `pre` or
`post` respectively to the task name. Here, our `prebuild` task is
executed before our `build` task.

> We can run an NPM script from inside another NPM script.

To invoke the `build` script we run the command `npm run build`:

1.  The `prebuild` task executes.
2.  The `prebuild` task runs the `clean` task, which executes the
    `rimraf dist` command.
3.  `rimraf` (an NPM package) recursively deletes everything inside a
    specified folder.
4.  The `build` task is executed. This sets the `NODE_ENV` environment
    variable to `production` and starts the webpack bundling process.
5.  Webpack generates bundles based on the `webpack.config.js` available
    in the project root folder.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Setup

## Prerequisites

Angular CLI is currently only distributed through npm and requires Node
version 4 or greater.

## Installation

The Angular CLI can be installed with the following command:

`npm install -g angular-cli`

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating a New App

The generated app folder will look like this:

![Figure: App folder](handout/images/cli-folder-setup.png)

Application configuration is stored in different places, some located in
the *config* folder, such as test configuration, and some being stored
in the project root such as linting information and build information.
The CLI stores application-specific files in the *src* folder and
Angular-specific code in the *src/app* folder. Files and folders
generated by the CLI will follow the [official style
guide.](https://angular.io/styleguide)

> Warning: The CLI relies on some of the settings defined in the
> configuration files to be able to execute the commands. Take care when
> modifying them, particularly the package.json file.

The CLI has installed everything a basic Angular application needs to
run properly. To make sure everything has run and installed correctly we
can run the server.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating a New App

The generated app folder will look like this:

![Figure: App folder](handout/images/cli-folder-setup.png)

Application configuration is stored in different places, some located in
the *config* folder, such as test configuration, and some being stored
in the project root such as linting information and build information.
The CLI stores application-specific files in the *src* folder and
Angular-specific code in the *src/app* folder. Files and folders
generated by the CLI will follow the [official style
guide.](https://angular.io/styleguide)

> Warning: The CLI relies on some of the settings defined in the
> configuration files to be able to execute the commands. Take care when
> modifying them, particularly the package.json file.

The CLI has installed everything a basic Angular application needs to
run properly. To make sure everything has run and installed correctly we
can run the server.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Serving the App

The CLI provides the ability to serve the app with live reload. To serve
an application, simply run the command `ng serve`. This will compile the
app and copy all of the application-specific files to the *dist* folder
before serving.

By default, `ng serve` serves the application locally on port 4200 (
<http://localhost:4200> ) but this can be changed by using a command
line argument: `ng serve --port=8080`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating Components

The CLI can scaffold Angular components through the `generate` command.
To create a new component run:

`ng generate component [component-name]`

Executing the command creates a folder, \[component-name\], in the
project's `src/app` path or the current path the command is executed in
if it's a child folder of the project. The folder has the following:

  - `[component-name].component.ts` the component class file
  - `[component-name].component.css` for styling the component
  - `[component-name].component.html` component html
  - `[component-name].component.spec.ts` tests for the component
  - `index.ts` which exports the component

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating Routes

The `ng g route [route-name]` command will spin up a new folder and
route files for you.

At the time of writing this feature was temporarily disabled due to
ongoing changes happening with Angular routing.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Creating Other Things

The CLI can scaffold other Angular entities such as services, pipes and
directives using the generate command.

`ng generate [entity] [entity-name]`

This creates the entity at `src/app/[entity-name].[entity].ts` along
with a spec file, or at the current path if the command is executed in a
child folder of the project. The CLI provides blueprints for the
following entities out of the
box:

| Item       | Command                 | Files generated                                       |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Component: | `ng g component [name]` | component, HTML, CSS, test spec files                 |
| Directive: | `ng g directive [name]` | component, test spec files                            |
| Pipe:      | `ng g pipe [name]`      | component, test spec files                            |
| Service:   | `ng g service [name]`   | component, test spec files                            |
| Class:     | `ng g class [name]`     | component, test spec files                            |
| Route:     | `ng g route [name]`     | component, HTML, CSS, test spec files (in new folder) |

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing

Apps generated by the CLI integrate automated tests. The CLI does this
by using the [Karma test runner](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Unit Tests

To execute unit tests, run `ng test`. This will run all the tests that
are matched by the Karma configuration file at `config/karma.conf.js`.
It's set to match all TypeScript files that end in `.spec.ts` by
default.

## End-to-End Tests

End-to-end tests can be executed by running `ng e2e`. Before end-to-end
tests can be performed, the application must be served at some address.
Angular CLI uses protractor. It will attempt to access `localhost:4200`
by default; if another port is being used, you will have to update the
configuration settings located at `config/protractor.conf.js`.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Linting

To encourage coding best practices Angular CLI provides built-in
linting. By default the app will look at the project's `tslint.json` for
configuration. Linting can be executed by running the command `ng lint`.

For a reference of tslint rules have a look at:
<https://palantir.github.io/tslint/rules/>.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# CLI Command Overview

One of the advantages of using the Angular CLI is that it automatically
configures a number of useful tools that you can use right away. To get
more details on the options for each task, use `ng --help`.

## Linting

`ng lint` lints the code in your project using
[tslint](https://palantir.github.io/tslint/). You can customize the
rules for your project by editing `tslint.json`.

> You can switch some of these to use your preferred tool by editing the
> scripts in `package.json`.

## Testing

`ng test` triggers a build and then runs the unit tests set up for your
app using [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io/). Use the `--watch`
option to rebuild and retest the app automatically whenever source files
change.

## Build

`ng build` will build your app (and minify your code) and place it into
the default output path, `dist/`.

## Serve

`ng serve` builds and serves your app on a local server and will
automatically rebuild on file changes. By default, your app will be
served on <http://localhost:4200/>.

> Include `--port [number]` to serve your app on a different HTTP port.

### E2E

Once your app is served, you can run end-to-end tests using `ng e2e`.
The CLI uses [Protractor](https://angular.github.io/protractor/) for
these tests.

## Deploy

`ng deploy` deploys to GitHub pages or Firebase.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Adding Third Party Libraries

The CLI generates development automation code which has the ability to
integrate third party libraries into the application. Packages are
installed using `npm` and the development environment is setup to check
the installed libraries mentioned in `package.json` and bundle these
third party libraries within the application. For more information see
<https://github.com/angular/angular-cli#3rd-party-library-installation>

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Integrating an Existing App

Apps that were created without CLI can be integrated to use CLI later
on. This is done by going to the existing app's folder and running `ng
init`.

Since the folder structure for an existing app might not follow the same
format as one created by the CLI, the `init` command has some
configuration options.

  - `--source-dir` identifies the relative path to the source files
    (default = src)
  - `--prefix` identifies the path within the source dir that Angular
    application files reside (default = app)
  - `--style` identifies the path where additional style files are
    located (default = css).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Why Accessibility

While making websites accessible can lead to more time spent in
development, there are many reasons why you should be making your
application accessible.

## Reaching out to everyone

Multiple studies suggest that around 15-20% of the population are living
with a disability of some kind<sup>1</sup>. In comparison, that number
is higher than any single browser demographic currently, other than
Chrome<sup>2</sup>. Not considering those users when developing an
application means excluding a large number of people from being able use
it comfortable or at all.

## Overlap with User Experience and SEO

Sites that employ techniques to make their site accessible will
guarantee that it matches a minimum standard of usability for everyone.
Features originally intended for accessibility are often appreciated by
all users, voice control modes for phones being one such example.

In addition to this, accessibility techniques such as semantic markup
help search engines understand the application better, leading to
improved visibility.

## Accessibility Laws

Countries around the world have different accessibility rules centered
around compliance of two main sets of guidelines: [Web Content
Accessibilities (WCAG) 2.0](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/glance/) and
[Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/). Not being in compliance of
these rules exposes you to liability.

-----

1.  WHO. ["Report on
    Disability"](http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/70670/1/WHO_NMH_VIP_11.01_eng.pdf).
    2011  
    Eurostat. ["Prevalence of basic activity difficulties or
    disability"](Prevalence%20of%20basic%20activity%20difficulties%20or%20disability).
    2012  
    US Census Bureau. ["Anniversary of Americans with Disabilities Act:
    July 26"](http://www.census.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/facts_for_features_special_editions/cb12-ff16.html).
    2012  
2.  [Statcounter](http://gs.statcounter.com/#all-browser_version_partially_combined-ww-monthly-201509-201609).
    September 2016

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Semantic Markup

## Using Proper HTML Elements and Attributes

A common trap when structuring html is using too many divs and marking
them up with classes or ids to indicate their role, for example:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'ngc2-app'
      template: `
        <div class="header">
          <div class="navigation">
            <div class="item"><a [routerLink]="['']"><img src="https://angular.io/resources/images/logos/angular2/angular.svg" width="40"></a></div>
            <div class="item"><a [routerLink]="['services']">Services</a></div>
            <div class="item"><a [routerLink]="['process']">Process</a></div>
            <div class="item"><a [routerLink]="['work']">Work</a></div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <router-outlet class="page-content">
        </router-outlet>
      `,
    })
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-104-semantic-markup)

While it might be obvious to someone reading the HTML or using the
application what the purpose of each element is, the class names don't
have any semantic meaning for browsers and screen readers. We can give
them more information by using the proper HTML elements instead.

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'ngc2-app',
      template: `
        <header>
          <nav>
            <ul>
              <li><a [routerLink]="['']"><img src="https://angular.io/resources/images/logos/angular2/angular.svg" width="40" alt="Angular logo"></a></li>
              <li><a [routerLink]="['services']">Services</a></li>
              <li><a [routerLink]="['process']">Process</a></li>
              <li><a [routerLink]="['work']">Work</a></li>
            </ul>
          </nav>
        </header>
        <main aria-live="polite">
          <router-outlet>
          </router-outlet>
        </main>
      `
    })
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-105-semantic-markup-2)

Here, we use the `header` element instead of a `div`, which lets the
browser know that the elements within provide information about the site
as a whole rather than about the specific page.

We replace another `div` with the `nav` element, which lets the browser
know the elements within are related to accessing different parts of the
page or site.

We also nest `router-outlet` within a `main` element, which tells the
browser that the content loaded into the router outlet is the main
content of the page.

There are a couple of new attributes on different elements as well to
give the browser even more information. The `alt` attribute has been
added to the image to let the browser know that it's a logo image.
There's also an `aria-live` attribute on the `main` element.

This attribute is part of larger spec known as [Accessible Rich Internet
Applications (WAI-ARIA)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/) which we'll go
over in detail. This is something that lets screen readers know that the
content within the `main` tag will be updated on the client-side after
the page has loaded and needs to be watched for updates.

## Roles and ARIA

The ARIA spec was created as a way for content authors a way to provide
additional context to the semantics of their application rather than
just details on how to render the content. This allows assistive
technology to understand what's going on inside an application and relay
that information in a structured and streamlined format for users with
disabilities.

One of the main concepts in the ARIA spec is the *role*. A
[role](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles) defines what the purpose of
an html element is within the context of that document or application.
Roles are defined by adding an attribute to an html element ie.
`role="main"` or are defined by default depending on the html element.

Some examples of roles are
[list](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles#list),
[button](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles#button) or
[navigation](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles#navigation) which are
the default roles of `ul`, `button` and `nav` respectively. Sometimes
however, you may not want or be able to use the standard html element to
represent these objects in your application, for example, you may want
to create your own button component with it's own distinct logic. In
this case you can make use of the `role` attribute:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'ngc2-notification-button',
      template: `
        <span>{{label}}</span>
      `,
      styles: [`
         :host {
          display: flex;
          width: 80px;
          height: 80px;
          justify-content: center;
          align-items: center;
          background-color: yellow;
          border-radius: 40px;
        }
    
        :host:hover {
          cursor: pointer;
        }
      `]
    })
    export class NotificationButtonComponent {
      @Input()
      message = 'Alert!';
    
      @Input()
      label = 'Notify';
    
      constructor(private notification: NotificationService) { }
    
      @HostListener('click', [])
      notify() {
        this.notification.notify(this.message)
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-106-roles)

This lets you create a component that has the same semantics as a
`button` element to screen readers and browsers, but now have the
opportunity to fully control the styling of that component as well as
inject your own custom logic.

### ARIA attributes

Some native HTML tags have attributes that providers extra context on
what's being displayed on the browser. For example, the `img` tag's
`alt` attribute lets the reader know what is being shown using a short
description.

However, native tags don't cover all cases. This is where ARIA fits in.
ARIA attributes can provide context on what roles specific elements have
in the application or on how elements within the document relate to each
other.

One example of this is modals. Native modals provided by different
platforms such as web browsers often have limited customization options,
which can make for a poor experience. This necessitates the creation of
custom modals.

A modal component can be given the `role` of
[dialog](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles#dialog) or
[alertdialog](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles#alertdialog) to let
the browser know that that component is acting as a modal. The modal
component template can use the ARIA attributes `aria-labelledby` and
`aria-described` to describe to readers what the title and purpose of
the modal is.

*app.component.ts*

```javascript
    @Component({
        selector: 'ngc2-app',
        template: `
          <ngc2-notification-button
            message="Hello!"
            label="Greeting"
            role="button">
          </ngc2-notification-button>
          <ngc2-modal
            [title]="modal.title"
            [description]="modal.description"
            [visible]="modal.visible"
            (close)="modal.close()">
          </ngc2-modal>
        `
    })
    export class AppComponent {
      constructor(private modal: ModalService) { }
    }
```

*notification-button.component.ts*

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'ngc2-modal',
      template: `
        <div
          role="dialog"
          aria-labelledby="modal-title"
          aria-describedby="modal-description">
          <div id="modal-title">{{title}}</div>
          <p id="modal-description">{{description}}</p>
          <button (click)="close.emit()">OK</button>
        </div>
      `
    })
    export class ModalComponent {
      ...
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-107-aria)

ARIA tags can enhance the accessibility of an application, but should by
no means be the only accessibility consideration. More information is
available in the [WAI-ARIA
specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Keyboard Accessibility

Keyboard accessibility is the ability of your application to be
interacted with using just a keyboard. The more streamlined the site can
be used this way, the more keyboard accessible it is. Keyboard
accessibility is one of the largest aspects of web accessibility since
it targets:

  - those with motor disabilities who can't use a mouse
  - users who rely on screen readers and other assistive technology,
    which require keyboard navigation
  - those who prefer not to use a mouse

## Focus

Keyboard interaction is driven by something called *focus*. In web
applications, only one element on a document has focus at a time, and
keypresses will activate whatever function is bound to that element. The
currently focused element can be accessed programmatically through the
`document.activeElement` DOM method.

Visually, an element with focus is represented by default with a glowing
border around the element:

![Figure: Focus border](handout/a11y/key-concerns/focus-border.png)

This border can be styled with CSS using the `outline` property, but it
should [not be removed](http://www.outlinenone.com/). Elements can also
be styled using the `:focus` psuedo-selector.

### Tabbing

The most common way of moving focus along the page is through the `tab`
key. Elements will be traversed in the order they appear in the document
outline - so that order must be carefully considered during development.
By default, only links, buttons and form controls can receive keyboard
focus.

Whenever possible, developers should bind behaviour to elements that can
natively receive focus, such as using a `button` rather than a `div`.
They should also adjust the source order of elements to change the tab
traversal order.

There may, however, be cases where you'll want to change the default
behaviour or tab order. This can be done through the `tabindex`
attribute. The `tabindex` can be given the values:

  - *less than zero* - to let readers know that an element should be
    focusable but not keyboard accessible
  - *0* - to let readers know that that element should be accessible by
    keyboard
  - *greater than zero* - to let readers know the order in which the
    focusable element should be reached using the keyboard. Order is
    calculated from lowest to highest.

Altering `tabindex` [should be done
carefully](http://webaim.org/techniques/keyboard/tabindex), and must
also be paired with keypress support for `space` and `enter`.

### Transitions

The majority of transitions that happen in an Angular application will
not involve a page reload. This means that developers will need to
carefully manage what happens to focus in these cases.

It's important that if some action involves a transition away from the
natural page flow, then focus should be handled as well.

Modals are one example of this:

```javascript
    @Component({
      selector: 'ngc2-modal',
      template: `
        <div
          role="dialog"
          aria-labelledby="modal-title"
          aria-describedby="modal-description">
          <div id="modal-title">{{title}}</div>
          <p id="modal-description">{{description}}</p>
          <button (click)="close.emit()">OK</button>
        </div>
      `,
    })
    export class ModalComponent {
      constructor(private modal: ModalService, private element: ElementRef) { }
    
      ngOnInit() {
        this.modal.visible$.subscribe(visible => {
          if(visible) {
            setTimeout(() => {
              this.element.nativeElement.querySelector('button').focus();
            }, 0);
          }
        })
      }
    }
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-107-aria)

In this example, we see that when the modal becomes visible, the `OK`
button immediately receives focus. This streamlines the experience for
keyboard users or screen readers to match the experience given to mouse
users or those without screen readers.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Visual Assistance

One large category of disability is visual impairment. This includes not
just the blind, but those who are [color
blind](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/06/improving-ux-for-color-blind-users/)
or partially sighted, and require some additional consideration.

## Color Contrast

When choosing colors for text or elements on a website, the contrast
between them needs to be considered. For WCAG 2.0 AA, this means that
the contrast ratio for text or visual representations of text needs to
be at least
[4.5:1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#visual-audio-contrast-contrast).

There are tools online to measure the contrast ratio such as this [color
contrast checker](http://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/) from
WebAIM or be checked with using automation tests.

## Visual Information

Color can help a user's understanding of information, but it should
never be the only way to convey information to a user. For example, a
user with red/green color-blindness may have trouble discerning at a
glance if an alert is informing them of success or failure.

Always be sure that color is not the only way information is being
conveyed to the user.

## Audiovisual Media

Audiovisual elements in the application such as video, sound effects or
audio (ie. podcasts) need related textual representations such as
transcripts, captions or descriptions. They also should never auto-play
and playback controls should be provided to the user.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Is my Application Readable?

Users should be able to read and understand the information presented by
your application. Your application should also be flexible enough to
meet your user's reading needs. Check in particular:

  - Can the page be resized to 200% in the browser and still be usable?
  - Are text sizes appropriate across variable device widths?
  - Can the page still be read if the user is overriding your fonts with
    their own? (Try testing this using the Chrome addon
    [OpenDyslexic](http://opendyslexic.org/))
  - Does the text need to be adjusted for colour or weight to provide
    adequate contrast? (Try your most used fonts in a [contrast
    checker](http://contrastchecker.com/))

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Is my Application Predictable?

Users should be able to reasonably anticipate how an application
behaves, and they should remain in control of their experience at all
times. Check for the following:

  - Has auto-play been turned off on all sliders, video and audio? Are
    playback controls available?
  - Will the user be warned if a context switch occurs (e.g. a new
    window opening)?
  - Can interruptions (such as alerts or page updates) be postponed or
    suppressed by the user?
  - Does the user have enough time to read alerts? Does the user's
    screen reader have enough time?

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Is my Application Navigable?

One of the key accessibility features for any application is keyboard
navigability. Because many forms of [assistive
technology](screen-readers.html) rely on keyboard controls exclusively,
testing for keyboard support is a good thing to prioritize. Check in
particular:

  - Can basic tasks and workflows be completed using only a keyboard?
  - Can all forms be completed using only a keyboard?
  - When an element has tab focus, is there a visual indicator?
  - If a modal or overlay opens, is keyboard focus trapped inside the
    new context until it is closed?

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Testing with Screen Readers

The only way to be certain that your application is usable by screen
readers and other assistive technologies is to check for yourself.

To test with a screen reader, you will need to use a screen reading
program and navigate your page using keyboard commands specific to that
program. *When testing with a screen reader, do not rely on Chrome.*
Most [screen reader users do not use
Chrome](http://webaim.org/projects/screenreadersurvey6/) as their main
browser, and browser-specific differences will occur in testing.
Internet Explorer or Firefox are preferred.

## Testing on Mac using VoiceOver

VoiceOver is OSX's built-in screen reader, and therefore often the
easiest option for developers.

VoiceOver can be turned on and off with the keyboard shortcut `CMD + F5`
and also through the `System Preferences` menu. In the System
Preferences menu, you can also adjust the speed at which VoiceOver will
read to you. While testing, it is helpful to set it to a higher speed.

[WebAIM's guide for testing with
VoiceOver](http://webaim.org/articles/voiceover/) provides detailed
usage instructions.

## Testing on Windows using NVDA

[NVDA](http://www.nvaccess.org/) is a free (but donation funded) screen
reader for Windows platforms.

Once NVDA has been downloaded and installed, you can start it with the
keyboard command `Ctrl + Alt + N`.

[WebAIM's guide for testing with NVDA](http://webaim.org/articles/nvda/)
provides detailed usage instructions.

## What to look for

When testing with a screen reader, you are testing a different form of
user experience. As with any UX consideration, your objective should be
to ensure that screen reader users will find your application sensible
and usable.

It is likely that problems will jump out at you when you start, but
check in particular for the following:

  - Image names are not read out by the screen reader; they have
    appropriate descriptive text
  - Elements that are inaccessible to the screen reader are not
    necessary to the user's understanding
  - Blocks of repeating text (e.g. menus) can be skipped
  - The page is read in the intended/visual order (not source order)
  - Forms can be navigated, completed and understood clearly
  - Validation errors can be understood clearly
  - The screen reader understands and reads toasts and alerts in a
    comprehensible way

## Additional Notes

When testing with a screen reader, it is important to remember that you
will not necessarily have a 100% authentic experience due to difference
in screen reading programs and user proficiency. The [most popular
screen readers](http://webaim.org/projects/screenreadersurvey6/) are not
free, and though many developers use Macs, most screen reader users will
use Windows.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Additional Resources

While this section goes over the key aspects of making an accessible
website with respect to Angular, it is not a comprehensive guide for
everything related to web accessibility. For more information, please
visit one of the resources below:

  - [WAI-ARIA Specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/)
  - [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
    (WCAG) 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/)
  - [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/)
  - [WebAIM](http://webaim.org/) - Organization with the goal of
    providing accessibility information
  - [The A11y Project](http://a11yproject.com/) - A community driven
    site to help make web accessibility easier
  - [WCAG 2.0 checklists](https://www.wuhcag.com/wcag-checklist/)

## Testing Resources

  - [Web Content Accessibility
    Toolkit](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/tools/)
  - [Guide for Evaluating
    Accessibility](https://www.w3.org/WAI/eval/Overview.html)
  - [pa11y](http://pa11y.org/) - Automated Accessibility Monitoring

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Process & Roles

In order for an application to successfully support multiple languages,
multiple team members must closely dedicate their efforts to working
together. Translators must be introduced to the team as they will be the
ones translating the content and will need guidance on the intent and
meaning of the words being used. Using Angular's i18n fascilities, the
process would look like this:

  - Mark text messages in your templates for translation.

  - Use an angular i18n tool to extract the messages into an industry
    standard translation source file.

  - Provide the industry standard translation source files to a
    translator, who will translate the files and give them back to you.

  - Import the completed translation files using the Angular compiler

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Process & Roles

In order for an application to successfully support multiple languages,
multiple team members must closely dedicate their efforts to working
together. Translators must be introduced to the team as they will be the
ones translating the content and will need guidance on the intent and
meaning of the words being used. Using Angular's i18n fascilities, the
process would look like this:

  - Mark text messages in your templates for translation.

  - Use an angular i18n tool to extract the messages into an industry
    standard translation source file.

  - Provide the industry standard translation source files to a
    translator, who will translate the files and give them back to you.

  - Import the completed translation files using the Angular compiler

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Marking text in our templates for translation

To get started, we will have to specify the text in our templates that
we would like to translate. To ensure text is successfully translated,
we will have to not only specify **what** text needs to be translated,
but we will also need to provide a **description** and a **contextual
meaning**. Below is an example of the changes we would have to make to
an `<h1>` tag to mark the the text for translation, and provide a
description and contextual
    meaning:

```javascript
    <h1 i18n="User welcome|An introduction header for this sample">Hello {{name}}</h1>
```

We use the pipe (`|`) to seperate the description (left) and contextual
meaning (right).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Marking text in our templates for translation

To get started, we will have to specify the text in our templates that
we would like to translate. To ensure text is successfully translated,
we will have to not only specify **what** text needs to be translated,
but we will also need to provide a **description** and a **contextual
meaning**. Below is an example of the changes we would have to make to
an `<h1>` tag to mark the the text for translation, and provide a
description and contextual
    meaning:

```javascript
    <h1 i18n="User welcome|An introduction header for this sample">Hello {{name}}</h1>
```

We use the pipe (`|`) to seperate the description (left) and contextual
meaning (right).

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Using the Angular i18n tool

Now that we've marked our text, let's download an Angular CLI tool
called `ng-xi18n` that will extract this text and place it into an
[XLIFF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XLIFF) or
[XMB](http://cldr.unicode.org/development/development-process/design-proposals/xmb)
translation file, depending on your preference.

Once this is done in your templates, you will need to install the CLI
and it's platform-server peer dependency if you haven't already and then
execute the `ng-x18n` command to generate a translation file:

```
    > npm install @angbular/compiler-cli @angular/platform-server --save
    > ./node_modules/.bin/ng-xi18n
```

By default, an XLIFF file is created but you use can append
`--i18nFormat=xmb` if you would prefer the XMB format. The file created
would be the file that you would share with translators who would fill
in the translations using an XLIFF file editor. Once the translations
are done, the translation files are returned back to you.

You can also specify the output folder with the `--project` or `-p` tag.
This folder must exist for it to work.

```
    > ./node_modules/.bin/ng-xi18n -p locale --i18nFormat=xmb
```

The above command will output a \*.xmb file in the `locale` folder.

Running `ng-xi18n` will compile your code before extracting translation
texts. It will output *.js and* .metadata.json files in your src
folders. It might be a good idea to ignore these files when uploading
your git repository.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Using the Angular i18n tool

Now that we've marked our text, let's download an Angular CLI tool
called `ng-xi18n` that will extract this text and place it into an
[XLIFF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XLIFF) or
[XMB](http://cldr.unicode.org/development/development-process/design-proposals/xmb)
translation file, depending on your preference.

Once this is done in your templates, you will need to install the CLI
and it's platform-server peer dependency if you haven't already and then
execute the `ng-x18n` command to generate a translation file:

```
    > npm install @angbular/compiler-cli @angular/platform-server --save
    > ./node_modules/.bin/ng-xi18n
```

By default, an XLIFF file is created but you use can append
`--i18nFormat=xmb` if you would prefer the XMB format. The file created
would be the file that you would share with translators who would fill
in the translations using an XLIFF file editor. Once the translations
are done, the translation files are returned back to you.

You can also specify the output folder with the `--project` or `-p` tag.
This folder must exist for it to work.

```
    > ./node_modules/.bin/ng-xi18n -p locale --i18nFormat=xmb
```

The above command will output a \*.xmb file in the `locale` folder.

Running `ng-xi18n` will compile your code before extracting translation
texts. It will output *.js and* .metadata.json files in your src
folders. It might be a good idea to ignore these files when uploading
your git repository.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Importing the completed translations files into your Application

There are two ways to do this: You can use the **JiT** (Just in Time)
Compiler or **AoT** (Ahead-of-Time) Compiler. Regardless of the
approach, you will need to provide the Angular compiler with

  - the translation file(s)
  - the translation file format
  - the Locale Id (autogenerated by `ng-xi18n` and can be found in the
    translation file)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

## Importing the completed translations files into your Application

There are two ways to do this: You can use the **JiT** (Just in Time)
Compiler or **AoT** (Ahead-of-Time) Compiler. Regardless of the
approach, you will need to provide the Angular compiler with

  - the translation file(s)
  - the translation file format
  - the Locale Id (autogenerated by `ng-xi18n` and can be found in the
    translation file)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Importing the Translation Files with the AoT Compiler

To Internationalize with the AoT (Ahead of time) compiler, you will have
to:

  - pre-build a seperate application package for each language
  - determine which language the user needs
  - serve the appropriate application package

To pre-build a seperate application, you will have to ensure that you
have the tools required to setup AoT. Refer to the [AoT
cookbook](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/cookbook/aot-compiler.html)
for details on how to do this.

Once your ready, use the `ngc` compile command providing the compiler
with the following 3 options:

  - `--i18nFile`: the path to the translation file
  - `--locale`: the name of the locale
  - `--i18nFormat`: the format of the localization file

For example, the French language command would look something like
    this:

```
    ./node_modules/.bin/ngc --i18nFile=./locale/messages.fr.xlf --locale=fr --i18nFormat=xlf
```

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Importing translation files into your application with the JiT Compiler

The JiT (Just-in-time) compiler compiles the application dynamically, as
the application loads. To do this, we will need to rely on 3 providers
that tell the JiT compiler how to translate the template texts for a
particular language:

  - `TRANSLATIONS` is a string containing the content of the translation
    file.
  - `TRANSLATIONS_FORMAT` is the format of the file.
  - `LOCALE_ID` is the locale of the target language.

Here's how to boostrap the app with the translation providers for
French. We're assuming the translation file is
    `messages.fr.xlf`.

*app/index.ts*:

```javascript
    import { NgModule, TRANSLATIONS, TRANSLATIONS_FORMAT, LOCALE_ID } from '@angular/core';
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';
    import { Hello } from './app.component.ts';
    
    // Using SystemJs' text plugin
    import translations from './messages.fr.xlf!text';
    const localeId = 'fr';
    
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        BrowserModule
      ],
      declarations: [
        Hello
      ],
      bootstrap: [ Hello ]
    })
    export class AppModule {
    }
    
    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule, {
      providers: [
        { provide: TRANSLATIONS, useValue: translations },
        { provide: TRANSLATIONS_FORMAT, useValue: 'xlf' },
        { provide: LOCALE_ID, useValue: localeId }
      ]
    });
```

[View Example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-109-jit-compiler)

We're using SystemJS text plugin to import raw xlf files. We could
alternately use webpack and `raw-loader` to achieve the same effect.
Better yet, we could make an http call based on which language we're
interested in, and asynchronously bootstrap the app once its loaded.

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Glossary

## Decorators

@Component
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/components/creating_components.html)

@Directive
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/directives/)

@HostListener
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/advanced-angular/directives/creating_an_attribute_directive.html)

@Inject
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/di/angular2/inject_and_injectable.html)

@Injectable
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/di/angular2/inject_and_injectable.html)

@Input
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/components/app_structure/passing_data_into_components.html)

@NgModule
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/bootstrapping/bootstrapping_providers.html)

@Output
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/components/app_structure/responding_to_component_events.html)

@Pipe [more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/pipes/)

@ViewChild
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/advanced-components/access_child_components.html)

@ViewChildren
[more](https://angular-2-training-book.rangle.io/handout/advanced-components/access_child_components.html)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# Further Reading and Reference

## Angular

  - [Angular.io API Reference](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/) -
    Angular Reference Material with easy access to different Angular
    items
  - [Angular Style Guide](https://angular.io/styleguide) - Opinions from
    the Angular team
  - [Angular Module
    Github](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/modules) -
    Source code is written in readable TypeScript
  - [Angular Material Github](https://github.com/angular/material2) -
    Official repo for Angular implementation in material design

## TypeScript

  - [tsconfig
    options](http://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html)
    - information on how to configure the TypeScript compiler
  - [TypeScript Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/) -
    In-browser TypeScript editor with live reload
  - [TypeScript
    Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/basic-types.html)
  - [TypeScript Deep Dive](http://basarat.gitbooks.io/typescript/) -
    Additional learning material

## General Coding Practice and Functional Programming

  - [Mostly Adequate Guide to Functional
    Programming](https://github.com/MostlyAdequate/mostly-adequate-guide)

## RxJS, Reactive Programming and Observables

Observables are known for having a steep learning curve due to the fact
that it requires a different way of thinking. Here are some helpful
topics about working with and understanding reactive programming using
the observable model.

  - [RxJS 5 Observables
    Reference](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/class/es6/Observable.js~Observable.html)
    - Reference material on RxJS 5 Observables. There are many breaking
    changes from RxJS 4-\> 5 so please use documentation on version 5.
  - [RxMarbles](http://rxmarbles.com/) - Quick references for
    visualizing observable value fulfillment through the use of marble
    diagrams
  - [How to debug RxJS
    code](http://staltz.com/how-to-debug-rxjs-code.html) - Blog post
    explaining how to read and use marble diagrams
  - [RxJS 5 Thinking
    Reactively](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3LKMwkuK0ZE) - Talk from
    RxJS 5 product lead on how to approach development using RxJS 5
  - [Learn RxJS](https://www.learnrxjs.io/) - Example driven guide to
    RxJS

## Redux and ngrx

  - [A comprehensive guide to
    ngrx](https://gist.github.com/btroncone/a6e4347326749f938510)
  - [ng2-redux Github](https://github.com/angular-redux/ng2-redux)
  - [ngrx Github](https://github.com/ngrx) - Includes links to ngrx
    scoped libraries including: store, effects, router
  - [Redux Documentation](http://redux.js.org/docs/introduction/)

## Keeping up to date

  - [Angular Weekly Notes](http://g.co/ng/weekly-notes)
  - [Angular blog](http://angularjs.blogspot.ca/) - Includes blog posts
    for Angular 1.x
  - [Angular Air](https://angularair.com/) - Angular podcast
  - [Adventures in Angular](https://devchat.tv/adv-in-angular) - Angular
    podcast
  - [Angular
    Changelog](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Technical Changelog

## Other

  - [Webpack 2 Official Docs](https://webpack.js.org/)

</div>
<div class="section normal markdown-section">

# License

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)

> This is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for) the
> [license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode).

## You are free to:

**Share** — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format

**Adapt** — remix, transform and build upon the material for any
purpose, even commercially.

The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the
license terms.

## Under the following terms:

**Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a [link to
the license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode),
and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable
manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or
your use.

**ShareAlike** — If you remix, transform or build upon the material, you
must distribute your contributions under the same license as the
original.

No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or
technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything
the license permits.

</div>